A ball he fell as Tchatzki did.
A ball here, there a children's treat,
A ball in Peter's capital,
A bastard fame prohibited?
A bearded postillion astride
A beau is for Tattiana found!
A beauty languidly at rest,
A bill of fare hangs full in sight
A blessed bottle, placed in ice,
A blood-bespattered shade would rise,
A boat with splashing oar floats by,
A bogy conjured up in joke,
A book at early morn perused.
A bottle of a vintage white
A box of terrible import.
A breathless silence then, prolonged--
A bristly bear of monstrous size!
A canine face with horns thereon,
A careless looker-on estranged
A case of books he doth obtain--
A certain little escapade
A charm with it in conversation.
A child devoid of childishness
A constant harping on one tune,
A countenance perplexed and scared.
A country damsel's album trim,
A crab upon a spider rides,
A critic of the stage malicious,
A cup of tea upon a tray.
A curious interest disclose
A dagger, asterisk, or note
A dangerous, gloomy misanthrope,
A deadly pallor, air distressed;
A dinner, whimsical each course,
A door he opens. But why shrank
A double force unto their song
A dove which on a lyre doth sit;
A dreadful sleep Tattiana sleeps.
A due which must to earth be paid.The courtyard full of serfs he sees,
A duellist of classic mind,
A dwarf adorned with tail, again
A dying man with art to soothe,
A faithful model she appeared
A feeble version read below,
A few of different temper deemed,
A fiery and eccentric mind,
A fiery, yet well-broken horse,
A finished madrigal would frame
A first success light pinions gave,
A flimsy trace of musings past
A fond and careful mother been.
A fop, in dress pedantical.
A forest now she sees in front
A fragile bridge and insecure,
A friar black approaching near,
A friendly hand thy life hath ta'en!
A gambling troop when he controlled,
A game of chess would often play,
A garden by a shining rill.
A grammar, likewise Petriads two,
A gust of passion never tore
A hand of ice appeared to seize
A happy destiny ordained:
A heart wherein pure passion burnt;
A heavy goose on scarlet feet,
A hemisphere beneath her sway,
A hermit's life Oneguine led,
A hidden meaning could impart,
A hidden train of wild desire.
A horse's hoofs she hears--She shrinks!
A hundred times will not repeat,
A jolly song and distant horn;
A journey to Moscow! To see the world!
A joyous troop of little boys
A Kalmuck gray, in caftan rent
A kerchief round her silver hair
A labour, torment, yet a joy,
A lady draws the hostess near,
A lady's hand doth never kiss.
A lancer captivates her heart!
A lancer her soul dotes upon:
A lean and shaggy nag doth ride,
A lethargy of sense, a trance,
A letter for her hero meant:
A life in common with the rest;
A life of fact, not fiction, led--
A little farther please to read
A little Juvenal to spout,
A little virgin mirror peeps.
A load of care upon the maid."But lo! forth from the valleys dun
A loaded pistol in his hand."Advance!"--
A love epistle he doth scrawl.
A love which knew no limitation,
A lover's letter might convey,
A maid hath oft, may yet again
A maiden's secrets--of the heart.Triumphs--their own or those of friends--
A mansion--by the window, see!
A marriageable maid matured,
A mien unaltered she preserved,
A mild quotation to translate,
A million bipeds reckons thus
A modern Regulus unchained,
A moment effervescing stirs,
A mournful temper on his Muse.
A new acquaintance we must scan.
A new Kaverine Eugene mine,
A new proprietor arrived,
A new world was made manifest!Although we know that Eugene had
A noted fop who gambled hard.Like his, her dress was always nice,
A notoriety proclaimed,
A novel in Lafontaine's style,
A nursling yet for Hope to school.
A pair of bullets--nought beside--
A pair; though desolate my mind,
A paragon of virtue he!
A passing snowstorm wreathed away
A passionate desire to bend
A pensive sorrow in her glance
A philosophic anchorite:
A pillar by, two aunts betwixt,
A pleasure though with sorrow knit:
A print without the picture's grace,
A promenade in twilight late
A prudent man like you and brave
A register of fleeting thought,
A riding whip. She strolls along.
A ring she heard the ancient strain:
A rivulet beneath them shoots
A Russian household simple quite,
A Russian in Childe Harold's cloak,
A Russian poem's mechanism
A scant attendance Lenski showed
A schoolmaster in yellow shawl
A sense of social delight,
A shape half cat and half a crane.Yet ghastlier, yet more wonderful,
A sidelong look doth Eugene dart:
A simple tombstone hath been set.There, when the rains of spring we mark
A single being: 'twas in fine
A slave of actresses capricious,
A smile from slumbering nature clear
A something somehow have obtained,
A spirit which for sorrow yearned.
A sportsman who in covert lies.But finally she heaves a sigh,
A stable, kitchen, fence appeared.To consanguineous dinners they
A stream, by winter's ice unbound,
A strong resemblance these possess--
A substitute for lamps we hail!Obedient she had ever been
A table to the fire is brought,
A tangled wilderness around.
A tender couplet he combined,
A thick immense neglected grove
A timid love to banishment?--
A timid, shrinking love to grieve.
A tombstone, Aphrodite's shrine,
A trifle pale, a trifle lean,
A trouble fell upon the sprites;
A true account and in detail.But not at present, though sincerely
A true Childe Harold my Eugene
A valuable hostage gained,
A Vampire fond of meditation,
A very troublesome disease,
A victim decked with golden leaves;
A village and beneath, a wood,
A vision desolate and drear
A visionary mortified,
A visionary personage
A weary season was at hand--
A while ago the winter spent,
A whisper runs along the hall,
A white and undulating pall
A wild enthusiastic tongue,
A windmill too a jig performs
A wish from place to place to roam,
A worshipper of Kant, a bard,
A worthy object 'tis, and well
A young and handsome galliard.
A young Armida's lips to press,
A young man motionless he saw,
Abandon cities riotous,
"Abandon hope for ever here!"
Abandoned he his country seat,
Abandoning insane delight,
About the crop of hay, the wine,
About the rain and flax and cattle."--
Above the ashes of the dead.
Above the humble urn of death.
Above the yawning grave would fight,--
Absorbed in melancholy mood
Abuse their masters, rub their hands:
Accelerates her hasty pace,
Accents of rapture or despair
Acquaintance instantly to make.
Across her youth a shade had come,
Across the Baltic's salt sea waves,
Across the gloom of heaven would sail
Across the smiling face of dawn.Alas! Tattiana fades away,
Across the stage still madly sweep,
Address to you one single phrase
"Adieu! thou home where peace abides,
Adieu! whate'er thou didst desire
Adieu, thou witness of our glory,
Admired his judgment, which was fine,
Admirer of the peaceful Muse,
Adorned the apartment of Eugene,
Adorned with many a vision bright
Adroitly seized and carried her;
Afar is borne by cruel fate,
Afar, where clothed in green and gold
Affection how did you requite?
_Affectionately yours till death_.
After the wedded couple strain;
Again a century should scourge
Again her rural life she sought,
Again imagination blazed,
Again in her ethereal dance?
Again the giddy waltz repeats.
Again the plague of boyhood--love?The hours once more Oneguine counts,
Against my inclination, friends,
Age immature averse to cheat--
Agreed! but then the whirl of fashion,
Ah! brethren, what was my delight
"Ah! come, Tattiana, come to me!
Ah! he has gone the other way"--
Ah! I still struggle to forget
Ah! I'm so weak--my throbbing breast!
Ah! it may be, affection true
"Ah! long the world hath missed thy shape!
Ah! than a spectre from the dead
Ah! what hath fate not torn away!
Akulka who was once Celine,
Alarm the winter journey gave.The date was fixed though oft postponed,
Alarmed by jealous agonies:
Alas! abroad I cannot go.
"Alas! dear nurse, my heart is cleft,
Alas! for now before her passed
Alas! how wretched now my lot!"
Alas! It is not hard to guess.
"Alas! my friend, no revenue!"
Alas! my friends, the years flit by
Alas! she is as hard, behold,
Alas! the friend of childish days
Alas! the youthful lover slain,
Alas! with merited reproach.
Albums magnificent which scare
Alike by sighs and flattery.
"Aline!"
All about Olga--to a light
All are amazed; but Lenski he
All are constrained and fetters bear,
All arise. To the door he goes.Terror assails her. Hastily
All breathless and without replies.
All covered up with snow in heaps,
All dark and silent hath become;
All hail! my good old friend Bordeaux!The fire sinks low. An ashy cloak
All in the good old style appears,
All mothers their sweet girls believed
All Nature winter seemed to await,
All overtures of friendship ended.
All rattled in the ball-room vast,
All silently hung down his head.
All slumber. In the drawing-room
All so distinct, and all so white!
All sons of mental weariness.Eight rubbers were already played,
All that a poet could desire,
All that industrial London brings
All that perfection could desire;
All that the heart would fain express--
All the creations which below
All the young people round about,
All this I know is out of date,
All this in many cases brings
All this may be an empty dream,
All this was novel to Eugene.
All this, my friends, translate aright:
All to the doctors Eugene send,
All to the grand saloon are gone--
All vanished as an echo goes.
All visited him at first, of course;
All which caprice and affluence craves,
All which in Paris eager taste,
All with urbanity betray,
Allure the young gallant
Almost became a poet say--
Alone amid possessions great,
Alone beneath your rooftree stay
Alone beside it, gray and bent,
Alone he doth his claret drink,
Alone she gallops on her steed,
Alone the princess sitteth there,
Alone with my Venetian maid,
Alone within his habitation
Along Saint Petersburg's paved streets,
Along the hall, and high above
Along the Neva's bank he sleighs,
Already Autumn chilled the sky,
Already by repentance moved
Already dance to song proceeds;
Already he grew phthisical.
Already sings the nightingale.
Also my wretched liberty
Also one Viazemski, remarking
Also the works of Fontenelle,
Also their feet--yet ne'ertheless
Also thy rough-and-tumble fights,
Also, to equalise the scales,
Although her book did not contain
Although it will not bear translation,
Although the destined coffin nears,
Although unknown to fame mayhap,
Although we read him heaps of verse.
Always together, eventide
Am I to go through the whole list?""How dull you are this morning, nurse!"
Amazed at the confusing crowd,
Amber on pipes from Stamboul glows,
Amid a serious disputation,
Amid coquettes who pray to God
Amid submissive herds of men
Amid the awful emptiness
Amid the company career.
Amid the snowdrifts which surround
Amid the soulless sons of pride
Amidst successes flattering
Among some ancient ballads thrust,
Amy Petrovna  utters lies,
An ace at fifteen paces bored.
An album, fly-leaf of the tome,
An almanac but eight years old.
An ancient lady full of grace.--
An ardent heart and yet so mild?--
An ear to my confession lend;
An ever transcendental flight;
An exile from their troublous reign,
An explanation: she was scared,
An honourable course ye took,
An hour passed by--another--till,
An idle anchorite and sad,
An infant maiden doth exhort
An inn at every stage erect.But now, what wretched roads one sees,
An innate love of meditation,
An invalid from lung complaint.
An oval countenance and pink,
And  they
And "Agathon" replied, amazed.
And a boy handed round the cream.
And a determined disposition,
And a grand festival proceeds.
And a guitar produced we see,
And a half rubles down gave she;
And a long time about her talked.
And a malicious epigram
And a new diadem supplied.
And a romance in ancient style
And abject slaves who kiss the rod;
And about dawn upon his breast
And after Albion's proud lyre
And after them at headlong pace
And agitate my heart again;
And aimless journeys did commence--
And all in snow is buried deep.The wood she enters--bear behind,--
And all that from thy hand proceeds--
And all the joys which Winter knows.
And all the three to breakfast went;
And all thy precious elegies,
And all with one accord agreed,
And all without her husband's leave.
And all your love on self bestow;
And alphabetically tries
And also fashionable beaux.Our hero stops and doth alight,
And also that my feeble verse--
And an elegiac poem wrote.
And an enchanting shoulder shines
And an encouragement did breathe
And an habitual sense of pain;
And an old gent the poet marking
And ancient usages observed
And as a country damsel roved,
And at economy was great;
And at the altar of their fame
And at the stages bugs and fleas
And at the table sat her down.To tragedy, the fainting fit,
And barely visible the smoke
And be as happy--as I might.
And be not in advance severe.
And beats with rapid foot the floor.
And beckon to the passing sails.
And bends her mirror on the moon,
And better, if I judge aright;
And bitter tears of fright I shed.
And bitter torment never known.
And bless mankind with full delight.
And blest me, sinking to the grave.
And blest the shadows of the night."To-morrow's dawn will glimmer gray,
And blush to own himself reflect.
And boiling o'er with friendly heat,
And both of dull existence tired,
And breathe a drama in his ear.
And breathe the balmy breath of night;
And breathes upon the chilly glass,
And brooding o'er the ills he bore,
And buried deep in meditation,
And by a genuine sorrow stirred,
And by a partial temper stirred
And by a sweet delusion he
And by that shady rivulet
And by the fiddle's rushing sound
And by the world repeated oft,
And calmly sleeps the hours away,
And can it be? But late a child
And cannot anything conceal,
And care but little for its ends.
And cares not farther to proceed;
And chattering loud sit down to dine.Ceased for a space all chattering.
And Christian folk will, I expect,
And clad in airy costume took
And Comet champagne foaming flows.
And comfort of each country dame,
And consolation soon begot.
And contemplative dreaminess;
And cool sagacious mind he had:
And courtier, fop, and usurer
And cried within myself: 'tis he!
And crossed with trembling hand the maid."I am in love," her whispers tell
And cry: he was a poet great!
And dames of fine organisations,
And dark and drear the evenings were,
And death before the husband wide
And deem the world perfection is!
And devastate the woods around.There was no doubt! Eugene, alas!
And disappear in space; then she
And distance interposed in vain,
And ditties of the steppe she loved.
And dost thou know her?"--"We live near."
And dream of life's delightful dawn?The house is crammed. A thousand lamps
And due precautions take betimes.
And ease and fashionable waste,--
And ease the tortures of the heart--
And education runs to waste,
And endless the cotillon seemed
And enmity and hope and love--
And Eugene ever in her soul
And Eugene soon discovered there
And every morning I awake
And every year distributed
And exclamations and good cheer.
And exclamations interlaced."Princesse, mon ange!"--"Pachette!"--
And eye which gleams with inspiration--
And far removed from rumour vain;
And farewell thou, my gloomy friend,
And fashion's gay frivolities;
And fashionable magazines,
And female tears hysterical,
And fields my joys have ever been;
And finally he deigns let fall
And finally, upon his bed
And fits of coughing racked her chest.By the sick lady's gaiety
And fled afar--she followed me.
And Flianoff, pensioned councillor,
And Flianoff, somewhat indisposed,
And flooded all the level ground.
And flowed harmoniously. He took
And following them ye might espy
And for a time our course delay,
And for Tattiana, mournful maid,
And form a network left and right;
And freezing fits of weariness.
And from his dressing-room would pass
And from the country all around
And from the Millionaya afar
And from the misty woodland nigh
And frosty as a Twelfth Night cold.
And full of innocent delight,
And gallicisms I love as well
And galloped home. But pistols twain,
And gallops to her house away.
And gave himself but little pain
And gazed around with eyes of flame;
And gently hovered o'er my head?
And glasses unemployed all night;
And glittering simpletons beside;Amid sly, pusillanimous
And gloomy epigrams malicious.How oft, when on a summer night
And golden Autumn draweth nigh,
And gossip of the town and fashion
And gradually day unfolds.
And grant his weary bones their rest
And grant success to labour long;
And grasp a stirrup fortunate--
And grasps a pen: his verse, albeit
And grown more curious by far
And had with waddling in the end
And handsome countenance combined,
And happy unto you appear.
And hark! the clank of spurs is heard
And harmony was soon restored.
And hastened to his uncle's side,
And hat surnamed a "Bolivar"
And hated casual visitors,
And hates the world's discordant ways.
And he had made her heart beat quick!
And he waits dinner. Lenski comes,
And he who, jealousy disarmed,
And heard a voice cry--_Why! He's killed!_--
And Heavens! warbled forth we hear:
And heedless of approval seems,
And her bespangled robe doth wave
And her upon the threshold laid.Recovering, Tania gazes round;
And her voice sweeter than the sounds
And herds of oxen wandering low;
And his poor basten sandal knits.
And his strange conduct at the dance
And homeward like an arrow tore.My friends, the poet ye regret!
And honestly 'tis my belief
And hoofs and crooked snouts and paws,
And hot with jealous indignation,
And hurried home his awful freight.
And husbands' tedious amity?
And I admired their common sense
And I confess that now-a-days
And I discerned through Fancy's prism
And I to give thee cakes was wont?"--
And I, amid the friendly crowd,
And I, remembering Svetlana,
And if Tattiana mine had found--
And impiously should declare,
And in a vision, sinless, bright,
And in a whisper did repeat:
And in her conversation drawled.
And in her grasp the letter shakes,
And in her hand a French romance.
And in her languid bosom raise
And in her native language she
And in society might shed
And in the bathroom did command
And in the final tome we learnt,
And in the frosty night alone
And in the morning doth not know
And in the Summer Garden rove.
And irrigate them with champagne;
And irritates the appetite.
And is all light within destroyed?
"And is it long since back he came?
"And is it she? It must be--no--
And is it true and not a jest,
And is it true her garland bright
And isolated from all men,
And jests doth recapitulate.
And jolting jarred the window-frames.
And judgment which unsteady veers
And kindness Tania was impressed,
And Kniajnine, apt at copying.
And leads a solitary life?
And leaning 'gainst the portal closed
And leans upon the monster's arm,
And leave a marsh the fertile ground
And led me off to church with song."
And Lenski followed--a light broke--
And Lenski, closing his left eye,
And lessons to his children read.
And life and fate in turn selected
And like a palisade flit by.
And like a shadow haunted her.
And like Childe Harold gloomily
And like his shadow dogged his life,
And like Napoleons each of us
And like the prisoner's our delight
And Limburg cheese alive and old
And linen on him doth bestow.
And lo! five paces more they pass,
And lo! he is already there!
And lo! where lies a marble tomb
And lonely through the forest creeps.""Is she in love?" quoth one. "With whom?
And long internal agitation
And long perukes hath vanished.
And love's delicious diadem
And loves you as--a relative!Ahem! Ahem! My reader noble,
And madrigals I'm asked to write!
And make a dark existence shine
And many a caravan on high
And many a day thereafter laid
And many another slily sneered;
And marking Tania's agitation,
And marvels deemed he thus should view.
And may fall headlong any time.
And meditative from the spot
And meditative homeward goes,
And mental elasticity.
And modest, cheerful as the morn,
And more imagination teems.
And Moscow many a beauty fair:
And mourned him still. Why mourn his fate?'Twas eve. 'Twas dusk. The river speeds
And my dark soul to light was brought;
And my Eugene the path must trace--
And my romance's open theme
And naked uniformity.
And natural benevolence,
And necessary fools allowed.
And never hath our language proud
And never was the ear affright
And no ridiculous report,
And not a speck of dirt descried.
And nothing more important sees;
And now 'tis night, the guardian moon
And now a fickle flirt and wild,
And now he views forgotten foes,
And now his youthful heart desires
And now philanthropy his soul,
And now she skips and now she springs
And now upon the snow in thaw
And now we hear delightedly
And now, I mournfully confess,
And o'er the granite coping bent,
And of the attic. Honestly,
And of the irksome harness tires,
And oft at eventide a throng
And oft in whispers would impart
And oft its Dictionary thumb.
And oh! what verses, what delights,
And on the footstool sitting down
And on the last one, underlined:
And others rise ephemeral!
And ought he not to disregard
And our successors soon shall drive
And our swift troikas never tire;
And overcome antipathies
And pallid nature trembling grieves,
And past the threshold of decay,
And pauses oft to serve out bread.
And pelt him with cherries,
And physic bring with mournful face,
And platitudes and pedantry,
And pleasure's daily blandishment,
And pressed her hand--the crimson blush
And privileges nice allowed,
And rapid whirl of many feet,
And reached, with nought his mind to engage,
And read De Pradt or Walter Scott!
And read our newspapers scarce ever,
And reads with rapid eager eye
And rest from bygone days of strife.But pause! Thou calm retreats, farewell,
And ringing wine-glasses are plied.
And rising from her bench proceeds;
And roofs near morn blanched o'er with snow;
And ruthless fashion hath blackballed.I like this word exceedingly
And sallied forth one brilliant morn--
And satisfied with vengeance ta'en.
And saying this Vladimir drained
And scanned in silence its content.
And Schiller read by candlelight.
And secretly their views expound.
And seek in buzzing swarms the meads.
And sermon--but in that dread hour
And shall adopt some new caprice.
And she at last hath us deceived;
And she despite herself would waste
And she to whom my lyre would fain,
And shorter had the days become.
And showed with an uncertain light
And shut him in a lonely nook.He read as vainly as before,
And silent as the maid Svetlana
And silently I here must die--
And since I pulled thee by the ear--
And slowly life coagulates--
And so departed. But Eugene,
And so Tattiana was her name,
And so--God bless them, if He list.In this the love of the fair sex
And solitude and calm delight,
And solitude and calm delight.
And sometimes into snares as well
And soon imagination threw
And soon Lel hovered o'er her head.
And soon Oneguine's door beside
And soon the friendly troop hath fled.They in a peaceful life preserved
And spectacles, his knitting staid
And spouted it with lyric fire--
And spur my spirit's torpid mood!
And starting suddenly doth say:
And stay whose length none recollects.
And still the coachmen round the fires
And stoves of various shapes abound.
And straight returning whence he came,
And stupid censors passionate;
And such unconsciously he led,
And sulked in silent indignation;
And supercilious dames she glides,
And supper. In the country we
And swifter than the swallow's flight.
And Tania's husband soon appeared.--
And tears of reconciliation:
And terrify a swarm of ducks,
And testy gamesters do engage
And that a bottle sealed with tar
And that no longer could inspire.
And that too often we receive
And that unrivalled paragon,
And the attendants called in haste.
And the bad book accompanies.
And the cast-iron statuette
And the cold beauties of the season:
And the conviction soon arose,
And the dark fringe of men, like frames
And the eternal lorgnette through
And the extent of his caprice;
And the fair sex as light as down!
And the far mountains daintily
And the heart's agitated dreams.
And the kind-hearted servitors:
And the lime alley's twilight dim
And the lone secret of her heart,
And the more surely we ensnare
And the newcomers welcome bade.
And the old nurse a brief prayer said
And the recesses of my mind
And the sagacious Triquet back
And the saloon threw open wide;
And the Skatenines, aged pair,
And the suspicious veteran old,
And the world met her smilingly,
And the young damsel from the town,
And the young girl appeared before
And the young ladies fortunes told,
And the young revellers of past times
And then "monsieur" supplied her place;
And then a cup of coffee drank,
And then made merry pope and guest,
And then she soon 'twixt work and leisure
And then the stanzas of my theme
And then to meditate for days
And then with blind credulity
And these the attentive maid observed
And they the waters recommend.He went not--sooner was prepared
And think: here lies who loved me well,
And this fifth canto ought to be
And this the faithful one allows,
And thou shalt taste the joys of earth.
And thou, from whom Tattiana sweet;
And thou, persistent to the end,
And thou, youth's early inspiration,
And though her soul might be confused,
And though I read it with distress,
And though perchance a lady may
And thoughtlessness to woe might lead."Thus did our friend Oneguine preach:
And thoughts of Olga first impressed
And through the lofty windows views
And thus ancestral dust reveres.
And thus each stubbornly proceeds.
And thus he never fell among
And thus he spent eight years of time,
And thus in season the rich field
And thus it is 'twould cause me pain
And thus secures the prey we seek.
And thus unto her nurse did say:"Nurse, 'tis so close I cannot rest.
And thy inebriating wave
And thy protection I implore.
And tiresome rogues ridiculous
And to Oneguine far away
And to revive Tattiana seemed.The chairs are thrust back with a roar,
And to the Bourse the cabman plies;
And to the field of honour led;
And to these letters and these tears.
And town and friends forgotten quite.This northern summer of our own,
And traces with a slender finger
And triumphs in career erotic.
And true, his pistol's faultless aim
And truffles, dear to youthful eyes,
And turned aside the drapery;
And turned to leave immediately,
And two old pines their branches spread--
And unto whom we all allude
And usually despised it too),
And vanish like a bird in air.Full many a lovely star hath night
And various chords upon it proves,
And vehemently though amazed
And viewed the door with cunning eye.All bustle when he makes a sign:
And views amongst themselves advance
And Virtue acts as a narcotic,
And visit many a foreign clime,
And vows will probably be signed:
And wakened him with the loud cry:
And watch her eye's full glance to meet.
And we--an unattractive set--
And well-instructed to betray!
And what from its recess appears?
And what like menaces fatigues,
And what resulted? Drunk with love,
And what she from the cards inferred.
And what the old man might bequeath.And in reality one day
And what will Destiny concede?"Farther Tattiana's walks extend--
And when for Olga nurse arrayed
And when her violence reviewed--
And when I prayer to Heaven addressed
And when the watery mirror gleamed
And where a madrigal occurs
And where at last his bones repose
And where may be her sister now?
And where tempestuous love's desires,
And where Thalia softly dreams
And where the admirable streams
And where the billows hoarsely raise
And wheresoe'er thy footsteps err,
And who is not a tiresome thief?
And who the rent-roll of his race
And wholly occupied his day--
And wild among them grew her words--
And wild festivities among
And wildly waves its arms and storms;
And wisely gallops to the hill.
And wished to say to him farewell.
And with emotional delight
And with gray hair ambrosial
And with his lot in life content,
And with remorseful anguish filled,
And would by candlelight arise.Romances pleased her from the first,
And yet he in your cause would strive
And yet oblivion forbade.
And you, my youthful damsels fair,
And you, O maids immaculate,
And youthful madness, youthful fires.The gulf between them was so vast,
And, by the light the moonbeams gave,
And, by the way, I here assert
And, hanging down her head, the maid
And, heaving a regretful sigh,
And, inspiration firing me,
And, joy of souls effeminate,
And, sobbing at your feet, to blend
And, though a plucky scatterbrain,
Anew the flames of passion start
Angel or fiend malevolent.
Anicia soon appears, the door
Announcing to him dinner-time.
Another bard with art divine
Another could her heart engage,
Another could her woe assuage
Another his betrothed was given;
Another passed; 'twas just the same.
Another tribune of the ball
Another visit hastes to pay.
Another with cock's head appeared,
Another! to none other I
Anticipating woe she pined,
Antiquity no pleasure gave,
Appear attuned to softer chords;
Appear; along the road of Tver
Appeared, Don's effervescing boast,
Applause, the people's donative.
Approach not to gaze at
Approach not to hearken
Approach, approach; I am thine own."Thus in a style _obscure_ and _stale_,
Approaches Olga and the pair
Are admirable, my dear friend,
Are all your relatives quite well?
Are not with elegance impressed.
Are oft deceptive--like their feet.Where is Oneguine? Half asleep,
Are turned upon her. All combine
Are ye replaced by other maids
Around her neck, now violently
Around my stanzas incomplete
Around the carriage of the pair--
Around the garden homeward hies.
Around the meadow and the grove.
Arouse yourselves, fair ones.
Aroused in him some tenderness.
Aroused in him sweet reverie.
Aroused Tattiana from her bed.
Arouses rustics from their sleep.
Arrange without the least delay--
As a babe's slumber, or the light
As a poetic life serene,
As bees who leave their dainty store
As butterflies to blossoms cling.
As cyphers others to appraise,
As daylight glimmers, darkness flits,
As deaf and silly doth remain,
As drunken tramps at nightfall sleep,
As every journal now entreats,
As formerly much agitation.
As formerly the shepherd sits
As giddy youth's hilarity--
As hope uncertain and as sweet,
As if he cruelly had joked!'Twas dusk! Upon the table bright
As if impossible it were
As if it were some funeral feast.
As if some troubled dream she dreamed.
As if with eider-down is filled.
As in a garden when I grew,
As in a thicket's humble shade,
As in her heart the thought sank home,
As in some frenzied dream of fear
As in the timid forest deer,
As in their turn the seasons roll.
As it were, tore himself away.
As lordly mansions ought to be,
As many dinners I rehearse,
As many entertainments be!
As men who much had done that day.
As oft to meat and drink advert,
As on the rapid wings of thought
As once, to fill the rapid page
As one who bivouacs afield,
As partner of my mournful days,
As rosy lips without a smile,
As Saadi anciently averred--
As storms which in chill autumn rage
As the reflection of his age,
As the sins of my youthful days
As thou, great Homer, didst of yore,
As thoughts which gentle maidens have,
As to a worthy man and good!But sad is the reflection made,
As vernal storms the fields athwart.
As we lure the young gallant,
As when the tempest's veil is drawn
As Winter in their purity,
As with innumerable fires.
As yet none had discovered aught;
As your light footprints on the green.Diana's bosom, Flora's cheeks,
Aside she casts her veil of gauze
Aside the foes their mantles threw,
Assemble from the neighbourhood:
Assemblies oligarchical
Assigned a lodging, from the hall
Assistance ever will extend,
Assuredly should not have been
Asunder was and hate prepared?
At a great feast against desire,
At an old aunt's they had arrived
At each extreme one takes his stand,
At early morn returns the maid
At eighteen not to play the fool!
At eventide would hither come,
At fifty who relief obtained
At first for books was disinclined,
At first such contradictions wrought
At first, but soon became inured
At first, I clung to secrecy:
At forty suffered from the gout,
At his pale brow a shot to have,
At Larina's abode produced
"At Larina's."--"Hem, that is queer!
At last became a ruined man.
At last is shrunk and withered quite?
At last my father gave his blessing,
At last the author!" cries Mamma.
At least by show of sympathy;
At least their accents and their words
At morn an icy bath within
At morn I must assuredly
At morn, hand clasped in hand, they rove
At neighbouring hospitalities.
At prisoner's base she never played.
At Russ she was by no means clever
At seven in summer rose from bed,
At table she was sitting by
At the front gates, but in brief space
At the same hour she oped her eyes
At thirty who was married well,
At this time almost understood.
At times my reason almost bends,
At times talk nonsense with design;
At times three words to him addressed
At times to silence would resort,
At times, if only once a week,
At twenty who was prig or swell,
At womankind he growled a curse,
Ate Russian pancakes at Shrovetide,
Athwart the snow four paces came--
Attend in male attire arrayed.On this artistical retreat
Attentive be unto my rhymes
Attentive listened to his speech,
Attentive listened to the lad.But more the passions occupy
Attentive to the echoing sound,
Attentive to the heart's first beating,
Attractive in its banefulness?
Aunts, mothers and their scrutiny,
Aurora's ruddy rays of light--
Authors replete with sacred fire
Autocrat of the drawing-room seek?
Avenge himself in proper style.
Avowal then 'twas time to pray,
Await the long-delayed caress.
Awaiting on the shore I roam
Awakens secret merriment
Away her golden earrings tore;
Away! and cease to ring their praise
Away, Tattiana, hath been ta'en.
Awhile sound conversation seems
Awhile this beauty captivated,
Aye bids ye in some way or other--
Back to his regiment must roam.
Baggage is heaped up in a mound,
Balconies, lion's heads on doors,
Baptized Prascovia Pauline,
            Baratynski
Bard of the "Feasts," and mournful breast,
Bard of the Finnish maiden young.
Barely to draw her breath she seems,
Barking, songs, whistling, laughter coarse,
Barking, young ladies' osculations,
Basins and jugs--well! everything
Bear gone--she at the threshold placed;
Beats that of friends and relatives:
Because a member I became.Once more to idleness consigned,
Because he could not gourmandise
Because he yawned at the bare view
Because her passion wanted art,
Because I should be sure, meanwhile,
Because in singleness of thought
Because my lord, in battles maimed,
Because she was so innocent,
Become a faithful wife and e'en
Become alarmed. So never mind!
Bedding is laid out and to all
Before a cold indifferent crowd,
Before a fire which feebly glows
Before he eighteen years attained.Since Eugene in that solitude
Before her straight with roguish eyes.
Before him her wild game of chance.
Before him red roast beef is seen
Before it ran a stream. Behold!
Before such fond simplicity
Before the altar, lo! the pair,
Before the dregs they shall divine
Before whom once in solitude,
Before whose inexperienced sight
Before you agonized to die--
Begins to talk of this and that,
Behind her a grave general.
Behind the mill. Meantime ye see
Behind the mountain sank the moon.
Behind, of glasses an array,
Behold her downcast eyes which glow,
"Behold my friend Monsieur Guillot;
Behold the dames who once were fine
Behold! beside their dwelling groups
Behold! green tables are brought forth,
Behold! orthography despising,
Behold! than polished floor more nice
Behold! the moon was shining bright
Behold! the world's opinion!
Behold, my sobs I scarce restrain--"
Behold, the crowd begins to stir,
Being from hell or heaven sent,
Believe me, of my present shame
Believed, the people's wisdom weird,
Beneath a cross and shrubbery.
Beneath acacias, cherry-trees,
Beneath her downy pillow placed,
Beneath her lay a strange courtyard,
Beneath her parents' eyes the maid
Beneath her roaring opened wide:
Beneath his head the pillow smooth,
Beneath his lips' devouring kiss.
Beneath the eyes of ladies bright
Beneath the flag of Quietude,
Beneath the moon which dimly shines,
Beneath the sheltering oak tree's shade
Beneath the silver of the moon
Beneath the table-cloth of white,
Beneath the window-sill his bed,
Beside a nameless rivulet,
Beside his Olga doth he grieve,
Beside our youthful heroine fair,
Beside the cup she sang her rhymes
Beside the stormy sea one day
Beside the thundering abyss
Besides the hobbies of a spouse
Besides, a duellist well-known
Betimes, and sees, when morning breaks,
Better than Chateaubriand did
Between myself and my Eugene,
Between the blanc-mange and the roast;
Between the stalls, along the toes;
Bevies of treacherous maidens young;
Beyond the city-barriers haste.Thou also, reader generous,
Beyond this may attempt to write_.Infallibly you there will find
Billiards abandoned, cue forgot,
Black curls which to his shoulders hung.
Blank, unapproachable and cold.
Blest be the labours of the light,
Bokharians, peasants, beds of greens,
Books he abandoned like the fair,
"Boredom, my friend, behold the ill--"
Born of a babbler in a loft
Both aunts looked knowing as a judge,
Both bush and brake, ravine and steep,
Both day and night he now must pass
Both ducks and geese in plenty bred
Both for the nails and for the tushes.
Both natural and truthful seemed.
Both were expectant of the hate
Both were of passion satiate
Boulevards, belfries, milliners,
Bouyanoff courted. She refused.
Bouyanoff too, my cousin, wore
Bouyanoff whisked off Poustiakova.
Bows and the scrape of many feet,
Brambles she snaps and lilacs crushes,
Breakfast the busy cooks prepare,
Bright blazed the window of the place,
Bright day will then begin to burn,
Brilliant, ethereal, there springs
"Bring dinner now without delay!"Upon the table in a trice
Bringing his partner corpulent
Britzka, kibitka, or in coach.
Bruin is marching at her back!She, to turn back her eyes afraid,
Bullets are down the barrels pressed,
Buried in meditation deep,
But Adam Smith to read appeared,
But ah! discerns nor wood nor mead--
But as to fighting--'twill appear!
But at a later, sterile age,
But at her shriek ran forth with noise
But better loved the soft repose
But boldly I myself resign:
But borne in spirit far away
But by degrees the crowd begin
But by fantastic dreams distraught,
But cannot anyhow evade
But cannot stand the northern cold.
But competition I abjure
But contrary to her advice
But could not. Then she questioned him:--
"But death from him will be delight.
But deeming all this nonsense pure,
But dinner-time comes. Two and two
But enough! Now, 'tis my intent
But Eugene long hath left the press
But Eugene was by fate preserved,
But Eugene, hating litigation
But Eugene, incontestably,
But fashionable hatred's flame
But finally grew bored by her.
But finally he oped his eyes
But finally in wedlock bind.
But finally she softly said:
But first permission did request
But followed the strict rules of art,
But fools--their calumnies and sneers"--
But Fortune cast our lots apart
But from the Muses' loftiest height
But gazes on Oneguine's face
But grant with magnanimity
But gray Phillippevna the door
But grown familiar side by side
But he desired not to beguile
But he who by the Muse was nursed
But home his body to despatch
But I abandoned their array,
But I am now another's bride--
But I await thee: scarce alive
But I came not to adulate:
But I must add to what I write
But I must now employ my Muse
But I perceive thou dost not heed--"
But I was sharp in times gone by.
But I, in love, was mute and dull.The Muse appeared, when love passed by
But I--what is all this to me?
But if my lot unfortunate
But if the truth I must relate,
But in his heart dissatisfied,
But in the drawing-room all appeared
But it grew late; cold blew the gale;
But it grew late; he must not stay;
But kindness from his eye had beamed
But Lenski madrigals ne'er wrote
But Lenski, having no desire
But Lenski, I should be so glad
But lights incendiary flames
But little warmth the fireplace lends,
But lo! already the moon's light
But lo! his braggart neighbour hath
But lo! the friends to chat commence."How are our neighbours fair, pray tell,
But lonely beneath Finnish skies
But look you--ah! do not refuse."
But Lord! from friends deliver me!
But man of sense and probity.He might his motives have narrated,
But memory like a serpent's tooth
But merely to exasperate;
But my Oneguine the whole eve
But my Tattiana's eyes were dry.
But my Tattiana, on my soul,
But no reply unto her made.
But nought for this Tattiana cares.The break of day she doth not see,
But now a question in this wise
But now all doubt was set aside,
But now in her effulgence pale
But now my mind is desolate,
But now our hero we must leave
But now ridiculous a bit.Behold Sabouroff, whom the age
But now--my very blood congeals,
But now--none heeds the monument
But now--what brings you to my feet?--
But nowhere can she find repose,
But of this love, e'en casually,
But Olga would not such peruse.
But on the third of grove and mead
But one buffoon unhappy deemed
But one thought only filled his mind,
But plainer girls they oft had seen.
But praised be God! in health art thou!
But presently she tried to read;
But promise of our meeting gave,
But proudly in his song preserved
But round the hostess scintillate
But say he was a genius who
But scarce had maids their saucers ta'en
But scarce had sleep's soft witchery
But scarce had turned the corner nigh,
But send your grandson before long."No answer all that day was borne.
But shall depict the touching scene
But since to the backdoor they led
But sits in bed with air depressed,
But somehow there shone in his look
But soon she altered all her ways,
But soon their choice seemed to her mind
But staggers, slips, and falls. We greet
But stares into the darkness deep.
But stay! A dolt am I who speak!
But still more stupid did appear
But still remembrance to him clings,
But stop! I will present thee, if
"But strange am I to happiness;
But strength of mind and self-restraint
But such is not for me. I brood
But such is not my project now,
But sudden fear assailed Tattiana,
But suddenly a snowdrift stirs,
But suddenly all changed around!
But Summer swiftly fades away
But sweeter in a midnight dream
But sweeter still it is to arrange
But Tania just as in a dream
But Tania's heart is not at ease,
But tell me what am I to do?
"But tell me, nurse, can you relate
But ten strikes and his sledge he mounts
But that Princess Pauline of old,
But that the eyes of every one
But the dark sepulchre I may
But the date subsequently changed
But the indifferent princess,
But the young unpolluted heart
But they draw near. Before them, lo!
But this a heinous crime appeared
But this adventure's consequence
But this amusement delicate
But this is my advice, 'twere best
But thou, Bordeaux, art like the friend
But thoughts meander far away--
But time flies and she doth forget
But to the garden once again
But to Vladimir Eugene saith:
But trembles, words he cannot find,
But trembling on the mirror dark
But tremor still her frame possessed,
But trusted the ideal she wrought?--
But turn we once more to our dame.
But turning morning into night,
But ultimately doth approach.
But upon all that Eugene knew
But was our friend Eugene content,
But were it not immoral I
But what a nuisance it will be,
But what astonished do I find
But what results? His eyes peruse
But when Tattiana's hand had ta'en
But when the winter season came
But when two minutes she had sat,
But where Melpomene doth rave
But wherefore not?--'Tis pleasant, nice,
"But which, my dear?--In days of yore
But who abandon it--as I
But who in that choice company
But why are your cheeks whitening?"
But wide Tattiana oped her eyes
But wilful, frivolous, and light.
But will not modify a tittle--
But with austerity!--for you
But with confused and bashful air,
But with her elder sister I
But word for word his letter read.All is foreseen. My secret drear
But would not look at Cicero.
But wretched who anticipates,
But ye to whom, when friendship heard,
But ye, O happy husbands, ye
But yet Terpsichore bespeaks
But you must both be quite tired out!
"But, _matushka_, to Moscow you
But, after mutual compliments,
But, as he never opened them,
But, as I said, Zaretski mine
But, ere he mounts the marble flight,
But, her own room in memory,
But, I acknowledge, from them fled;
But, knowing not the actual truth,
But, that life longer may remain,
But, to his uncle's mansion flown,
But, when Oneguine's turn came round,
"But," cried Zaretski in amaze,
By "belle Tattiana" to replace.Lo! from the nearest barrack came,
By a rich pie were occupied--
By absence who hath chilled his love,
By an _obrok's_ indulgent rate:
By an avowal just as plain.
By barren snow heaped up and bound,
By bee and butterfly which pass.'Twas she who first within his breast
By children and by faithful wife
By computation) it is like
By daily life deteriorated,
By dull insensibility,
By every proper-minded wife,
By Faublas in his youth was schooled,
By flattery and lover's art--
By fond illusions once possest
By friendship how they were abused,
By Heaven in lieu of happiness.Habit alleviates the grief
By his embarrassed dignity--
By indolence and languor fired
By liberties or loose or light.And yet the city's flower was there,
By love's inevitable flame.
By many a lamp illuminate,
By melancholy fogs concealed.
By neighbouring families bewept,
By night prepared for sorcery,
By Olga stood, dejected quite
By Olga's hand distributed
By other thoughts be occupied.But I the products of my Muse,
By poor Tattiana in the blues;
By Providence's dark decree!
By rank as settled by the State.
By recklessness amuse or shame
By such allusions scandalous,
By sympathy I have been driven.
By Tania, smoothing his peruke,
By the coarse wit of worldly hate;
By the decree of Mighty Jove,
By the fine silver of the north.
By the old lime-tree or the rill,
By their own horses, not the post--
By time
By Tolstoy's pencil marvellous,
By visions who was ne'er deranged
By waters shining tranquilly,
By what idea or observation
By whom the youthful bard was slain?"--
Byron's capricious phantasy
Calling to mind your icy look
Callous to all he seemed to be.Ye miracles of courtly grace,
Callous to all on earth become--
Calm and without embarrassment,
Calmly her eyes encounter his--
Came forth in all her magic sheen.The snow descends and buries all,
Came with Monsieur Triquet, a prig,
Can count the time without much fuss--
Can hearty welcome give alone.
Can lower depths beyond remain?
Can scarce in sweetness be a match.Well, if your pistol ball by chance
Can she have been a moment gone
Can we not stealthily make out
Cannot they amicably smile
Canto the First of this romance.
Capers applauds with clap of hands,
Cards, balls, routs, poetry or fetes;
Careless of every social rule,
Careless of fame his spirit high
Caricatures he now designed
Carried a truth divine away;
Carried away by ecstasy,
Cartel, or challenge to a fight,
Cast a gay lustre on the snow,
Cast down his eyes in trepidation
Cast upwards then her eyeballs dim
Caught him and by the collar took
Cease the pursuit of shadows vain,
Ceaselessly to the maiden sweet
Certain misfortune near opined.
Chained to his bedside night and day
Change of position had essayed,
Charming is your sincerity,
Charming with grave simplicity.He sang of love--to love a slave.
Charms more enduring in the end.
Chief rascal, pot-house president,
Childe Harold, quaker, devotee,
Choosing a profitable trade,
Clarissa, Julia, Delphine,--
Cocked hat and melancholy brow.
Combs of all sizes, files of steel,
Come rumbling up the neighbouring roads,
Come sing we in chorus
_Come to my golden palace, dear_!
"Come," she cried, "sister, tell me e'en
Comfort and succour to the poor,
Command him not to say a word--
"Command me, darling, what you choose"--
Commence a new career in life
Companion of my childhood's days.
Compassion now or wrath inspires
Conceitedly on Tania fair,
Condemn not weak Tattiana mine;
Condemned to exile dire by fate,
Conduct Tattiana constantly,
Confessions which a trusting heart
Confront thy fated torturer!Love's pangs Tattiana agonize.
Conquer by passion and address,
Conscious of death approximate,
Consisting of harmonious lays,
Constant affection intertwined
Contemplate her sad reverie.
Contend with knife and fork and platter,
Contented and with victuals stored,
Conventionality's dull tool--
Corneille's majestic genius,
Corset and album and Pauline,
Could in a humble sphere despise,
Could in romantic mantle drape
Could not conceive how serious Grimm
Could not eclipse her neighbour's light."And is it," meditates Eugene.
Could not in that brief moment guess!
Could taste the pleasures of the road.
Cousin, rememb'rest Grandison?"
Cried the old dame with anguish filled:
Cropped in the latest style his hair,
Crunching the morning snow she treads;
Crush and confusion in the hall,
Crushing and a confusing noise;
Cunning already to display
Cursing his own stupidity,
Curtly announcing for the fray
Custom the despot soon prevails.
Customs by ages sanctified,
Daily beefsteaks and Strasbourg pies
Daily of love in solitude.
Dally with a dishevelled tress
Danced the mazurka gracefully,
Dared calmly cleanse his nails 'fore him,
Dark clouds before the north wind fly;
Dark shadows thicken--a dread cry
Dark was the valley and the wood
Dark, unavailing reverie,
Debate commanded ample food--
Deeming himself a veteran scarred
Deep in our mother Earth's chill breast!"Tattiana's eyes with tender gleam
Deep in the distant province rude,
Deep in the greenwood far away?Arising with the morning's light,
Deep into debt his father ran;
Deliberate approach of guests
Delicious nature, thee I fly,
Delicious visions, jests and fights!Alas! my stomach it betrays
Delighted glances in return;
Delighted much his former ways
Delighted, almost sane in mind.But once more pensive and distressed
"Delighted."--"When?"--"This very night.
Delusions of a mind untried,
Demands that I translate for you
_Demetrius Larine, sinful man,
Depart in peace and friendly live?
Departed, ordered out his horse
Depicted on your haughty face!
Deplores a most unworthy spouse
Deprive our schoolgirls of repose,
Descended swift in turbid streams
Descends the bank with care extreme,
Descends, the order Guillot gives,
Describe in detail the affair,
Descried before me suddenly!
Deserted Eugene. He, distraught,
Desire to rule ye may observe
Desirous to annihilate
Despair and anger seize on me,
Despite the anguish of his breast,
Destroyed the blossom of his prime.
Detecting him the passing horse
Detest him for a brother slain?
Develops and matures its powers,
Device of rural minds acute!)Young maidens, fair maidens,
Devoured them with an eager zest.
Did not their lips with foreign speech
Did seem to greet the youthful year;
Did they not all the Russian tongue
Dies suddenly: of heirs alone
Diminishes as years decline.
Discourse of Bentham or of Say,
Discovered much absurdity,
Disperse yourselves, darlings,
Displayed a noble rectitude--
Disport yourselves, maidens,
Distinctly not its mechanism.
Distracted by her grief appears
Divinity without access
                    Dmitrieff
Do agitate his late repose.
Do all things which to mirth incline.
Do me a favour and appear.
Do not cold-bloodedly repeat
Do not excuse yourself. I read
"Do not--you might--suspicious be;
Do we alone our losses mourn
Do we foresee in troubled dreams
Do ye not hear my mournful sighs?
Do ye of spring the blossoms graze?
Doctors and women, sobs and groans.But, howsoe'er his lot were cast,
Domestic life attracts me still,
Doth his brow wretchedness declare
Doth in her gentle eye appear.
Doth in us or our names appear,
Doth love's incautiousness in her
Doth on the billiard table rest,
Doth seem to him the festal scene.
Doubt and uncertainty decide:
Down in the courtyard magpies gay,
Drank to her health in the first place,
Draw near. I soon to sleep shall go--
Dreading the world's remarks malign,
Dreamed in the future man and wife.
Dreaming herself the heroine
Dreaming of what not, pretty lass,
Dreaming perchance in weal or woe
Dreams with no continuity,
Dressed him, undressed, and dressed again?
Dressed like a London dandy he
Dressing as quickly as he can,
Drive on! the city barriers hoary
"Drive on!" the cheerful cry goes forth,
Drive out the cattle from their shed,
Driving abreast three horses gray.
Drunk as a fly; and thus the French
_E sempre bene_, gentlemen!
E'en as the poet says he leant.
E'en as the presence of a snake,
E'en for an instant find delight,
E'en from her cradle's earliest dream,
E'en hopeless egoism's dark shape.
Each gave Tattiana's arm a nudge
Each gust of temper, silly word,
Each other as the shore we climb!
Eaten, drunk, gossiped and grown stout:
Economy political,
Eight times the heroes of the fight
Either she saw not or ignored;
Either with him or thee in song,
Eloquent raver all-surpassing,--
Employ your glasses constantly,
Enamoured at her feet to fall.
Enamoured, simple-minded, poor,
Enchanted by the moon's pale beam.
Enchanting, but unwittingly,
Enclosing pictures of fair dames.
Encountered punishment complete,
Endless conjectures all propound
Endowing us from out her store
Engrave the ice with strident noise.
Enhances love in estimation
Enjoy the meed which Fame bestows--
Enjoyeth peaceful slumber here_.
Ennui can in the country dwell
"Enough to see one winter's end;
Enough! my pack is now unslung--
Enough! with tranquil spirit I
"Enough, arise! for much we need
Enough, enough, conclude thy lay--
Enraptured was he if allowed
Entranced me by some mystic tale.
Entreaties, oaths, fictitious fear,
Entreaties, woes and prayers, confess
Entrusted all to her sincerely,
Epicurean philosophers,
Epistle second, note the third,
Epistles of six sheets or near,
Ere conversation could begin,
Ere crimson stains their hands defile,
Ere the bright messenger had set.
Ere this but one brief moment beat
Espy him approaching,
Espying, Eugene with a smile
Esteemed him much as the world goes.
Et cetera_; but nothing showed
Eternally to imitate
Eugene at first began to dream,
Eugene designed with me to start
Eugene directs the trusty man
Eugene fell prostrate at her feet--
Eugene in hackney carriage placed.
Eugene of course related nought,
Eugene was touched with sympathy;
Eugene would speak regarding these.
Eugene, more tolerant than this
Euphonious, though I know a spice
Even amusing fools we miss
Even as Moscow, city proud.Confess, O ye who this peruse,
Even as the love of children dear.
Even beneath her parents' roof
Even the rosy wafer dries
Eventually petrify
Ever absorbed a maid so much:
Ever by adverse fate oppressed,
Ever receive with kindly hearts
Ever to hear the same replies
Everywhere trumpeting its feats,
Examine her from head to foot.
Examined, mended, newly found
Except one by the window placed
Exceptionless as no rule is,
Exclaiming, "We must change 'em all!
Excruciate the heart and late
Exhausted by my woes and rhymes,
Exist--that their immortal band
Existence calmly sped along,
Existence without wife or friends,
Existence would not make a curse,
Extended--haunt which Dryads love.
Extinct the flame which once had fired;
Extinguished ashes do not blaze--
Faces which we meet everywhere
Fair object of my guileless lay,
Fair source of every fine idea,
Faithfully shall I now depict,
Faithless, alas! thy maid appears,
False confidence or doubt to impart,
Familiar to him long ago.
Fantastic images shall swarm
Far from his Italy--his own.
Far from the rest the pair would creep
'Fare thee well, and if for ever,
Farewell! thou golden days of love!
Farthingales, patches, were the thing,
Fashion is there immutable,
Fat Poustiakoff drove to the door;
Fearing his pupil to annoy,
Feather-beds, also poultry-coops,
Feeling in others much esteemed.With smiling face he Lenski hears;
Feeling is silly, dangerous.
Feelings which long had ceased to be
Felled a calumniator base!
Finally tost his arms in air
First reconciled and then content;
Flanked by immortal Strasbourg pies,
Flew to collect his rural tax;
Flies past the porter to the stair,
Fly frequent to my solitude,
Foeman or friend, I do aspire
Follow up love--a secret meeting
Fond declarations they invite
For a fictitious misanthrope,
For a protracted space of time.
For Ay is like a mistress fair,
For baseness of the spirit scorns,
For consecrate to me he fell
For dolls, e'en from her earliest years,
For empty sound the rascal swore he
For ever carps, condemns, pursues?
For ever faithful will abide."
For ever with thy tattling lyre,
For ever your Tattiana leave.
For evermore had disappeared.
For evermore is separate.
For every loyal Russian breast!
For first "madame" his wants observed,
For folly's dues thou hadst to pay.Noise, laughter, bowing, hurrying mixt,
For God's sake, Lenski, don't begin!
For him an honourable grave,
For him were but of little worth,
For I myself was thirteen quite;
For journalistic deglutition
For law I _far niente_ take
For Lenski, sought him with her eyes,
For long he had endured them all.
For long--for ever. To be sure
For maiden's hearing deemed unfit),
For Moscow fops and Circes each
For my wild garden and bookcase,--
For o'er a word to fashion known,
For on their brows I trembling read
For otherwise--God only knows!
For our amusement ever made
For our Automedons are fire
For patience, reader, I must plead!
For promises her feet reveal
For riot, frolics, mighty feeds,
For rural solitude and dreams,
For savage speech, uncouth and strange,
For shame lift up the modest maid.
For summer to the country flown,
For tallow, wood and other things
For the first time the hammer clicks.
For the impatient chief instead.
For the young poet they display.
For there he left a mournful trace.
For treachery had done its worst;
For twice you came to them and yet
For us, may be for many a year.
For visions of my childish years
For was it not her duty to
For which no springtime shall appear?
For which the poet agonized
For who imposture can endure,
For whom, Tattiana, is it meant?I have known beauties cold and raw
For your instruction here to tell
For, from the outset, 'twas unjust
Forgive me! Such the love I bear
Forgive the fever youth inspires,
Forgot the world, the noisy ball,
Forgotten in the village lone,
Forth from the crowd of nymphs surrounding
Forth the _kibitka_ gallops swift,
Fortune the poet had repaid.
Found out the secret how at pleasure
Found the ideal of my youth,
Found them in darkness side by side,
Four deadly paces do they span;
Fragments of northern poetry,
Free scope he yields unto his glance,
Free, I renewed the idolatry
Free, in the blossom of his spring,
Frequent and rapid doth his glance
Fresh cause of quarrel then I'll find,
Friends and companions,
Friends of Liudmila and Ruslan,
Friends of the sons of every land,
Friends, I must your indulgence pray.
Friendship and friends he likewise curst,
From apprehension of the cost,
From boxes or from stalls in rows.To the assembly her they bear.
From careless stanzas such as these,
From everything the heart held dear
From first to last page to the rim.
From gales a hill behind was seen;
From Gottingen inspired he came,
From habit or maliciously,
From hall to yard and garden flies,
From happy inspiration flow,
From hence engrossed in thought profound
From henceforth I confide to thee!
From her half-open vest of night.
From her my lips shall learn the tongue
From mere vacuity of mind
From public and from private ties,
From Romulus unto our day.
From shades of the relentless past.
From storms protection having sought,
From such digressions wholly free.
From the dread pistol turn away.
From the moist cork the bottle freed
From whose analysis minute
From you too Eugene took to flight,
Frosty the night; the heavens shone;
Fruit of the yearnings of the heart.
Full many a foolish prank brought forth;
Full many a glance like lightning flash,
Full of exasperating thought.
Funeral amateurs abound!
Furious he from the table rose;
Gallop, mazurka, waltzing--see!
Gay flowers and luscious fruit doth yield.
Gazed on him, called him. Useless care!
Gazing into his face, she said:
Gazing on Lenski's corse did stand--
Gazing upon a note below.
Gently for pranks he would reprove
Gifts such as these alone could prize,
Girls in anticipation skip!
Girls the _kashourka_ much prefer.
Give me just half a glass of wine--
Glides with a more luxurious ease;
Gliding in negligent career,
Glimmers and dies. This is well known,
Glittered in a perspective long,
Glory with which our history teems
Go hear the rustling of the oaks
Go, on the Neva's bank appear,
God grant I meet not at a ball
God grant that all who herein glance,
God knows! The very trace is lost.'Tis sweet the foe to aggravate
God save his soul eternally
Goddess of lovers' tender sighs.
Good governs all! The hour draws nigh
"Good-bye, Oneguine, I must go."--
Good-night." Behold! she is alone!
Grant that I err not on the road."
Grasped a long knife and instantly
Grateful to Heaven for their lot.
Gravely repeating to another
Great sacrifices for his sake!
Grew brighter still. But Lenski hath
Grew like a lily pure and white,
    Griboyedoff
Grow harsh and cruel, dead and dry,
Grown clammy, stick fast in the snow;
Grows pale and sinks, but nothing says;
Guards fondly hope's uncertain dream.
Guillot behind a pollard stood;
Gvozdine, a landlord excellent,
Gvozdine, Bouyanoff, Petoushkoff
Habit was given us in distress
Habit would bring indifference.
Had a deluded victim been
Had bid her sigh for without hope--
Had come both friends and enemies--
Had filled her youthful breast with gloom,
Had finished life amid his sons,
"Had he been long here, and where from?
Had killed me had the like been told."
Had let fall many a bitter tear:
Had much to do at home that day,
Had not yet withered his young breast.
Had perished a creative mind,
Had reconciled the pair anew!
Had rendered him an invalid;
Had run across her path at speed,
Had to compose in secret rhymes,
Hallo, Andriushka, onward race!
Handbook of fashionable phrase
Hangs heavy on the oaken boughs,
Happy and glorious_. But this brings
Happy who quit life's banquet seat
Happy who thereto can unite
Happy who timely grew mature,
Hard by the window took her place."--
Harmless, but quite nonsensical.
Harnessed the rapid sledge arrived:
Harvests of souls unceasingly
Haste, haste thy lagging pace, my story!
Hateful the hollow world became,
Hath fate apportioned unto thee
Hath gradually learnt to endure;
Hath mixed himself in the affair,
Hath pictured in his gorgeous line
Hath she a fitting phrase selected?
Hath suffered but indifferent grown,
Hath the bard, by indifference blest,
Hath tranquilly in turn attained,
Hath whiled the road's monotony,
Haughty appear, subservient,
Have e'er a precious tress consigned,
Have echoed to eternity.
Have entered never to return.
Have felt love's agitated kiss
Have guessed already. Yes, quite so!
Have latterly vexatious grown;
Have my Oneguine--suddenly.
Have one by one all withered grown
Have shone as one of fashion's leaders.
Have smuggled his flagitious lay.
Having a trusty staff bestowed,
Having for money's sake alone
Having lost all in life we prize.
Having once fixed your interest,
Having performed his service truly,
Having remarked Vladimir's flight,
Having this mournful document
He "Benedetta" used to hum,
He _cannot_ give me happiness."
He a polite reply doth scrawl.
He back as from a sudden blow?--
He bending whispered in her ear
He bends his course to Talon's, where
He bowed to her nor silence broke,
He brought from mystic Germany
He called to mind Tattiana's grace,
He called upon me Christmas Eve--
He cared no longer there to stay,
He conversation would have led--
He could in disputation shine
He daily in his drives drew near
He deemed his coming would inspire
He deemed his friends but longed to make
He deemed of human life the goal
He dragged her by a forest road
He drinks, all drink and loudly call;
He drops his pistol silently.He on his bosom gently placed
He enters the saloon. 'Tis blank!
He enters. Ah! good news to-day!
He enters. High the cork arose
He enters: in the hall a crowd,
He enters: rapidly discussion
He enters: to the mill he drives:
He eyed her with a fond concern,
He feared the criminal might try
He felt the laudable desire
He finally lost all delight
He fixedly upon her stares--
He found him on the table laid,
He found them in an almanac,
He from his Kalmuck horse did leap
He gazed upon the clock which showed
He had excepted from the ban:
He has returned, say in what guise?
He hath acquired the world's esteem
"He hath neglected us of late."--
He heard his soul's complaint within,
He hies unto the "Boulevard,"
He in imagination saw
He in the early years of life
He is a charming youth and wise.
He is not there: I am not known:
He kindled his poetic flame.
He knew not how to spend his life.
He knits his brows--'tis silent all.
He knows Kaverine will repair.
He laughs, although it aches from cold,
He left _you_ first, and I must own
He leisurely adorns for her.
He lies, upon his forehead death,
He long should have been on the road.He rings in haste; in haste arrives
He loved the simpleton to mock,
He marmot-like did hibernate,
He mused: "I will her saviour be!
He ne'er shall hear Time's eulogy,
He nears a spacious mansion's gate,
He now a full possession takes,
He obstinately will remain,
He offers her his murderous paw;
He oft upon his lips would curb,
He on the conflagration frowned.
He ought to have conciliated
He perished. Where his troubled dreams,
"He promised here this day to ride,"
He racked his brains to find its clue
He read the unbelieving Bayle,
He reads at random, reads in vain.
He roars, and "Ah!" Tattiana cries.
He round the billiard-table stalked,
He salutary rules poured forth?
He sang of life's fresh colours stained
He sang of separation grim,
He sat, and then the livelong day,
He seemed for matrimony born.He was beloved: or say at least,
He shunned those parties boisterous;
He smiles, in laughter all combine;
He somewhat blushing would omit:
He still made love in a queer way;
He takes his seat, concludes his game,
He there is master--that is plain;
He thought so, and existence charmed.
He thought to write, but labour long
He to the festival repairs,
He took no more the slightest heed;
He took the room wherein the old
He used to hate--and was no fool--
He usually was glad to see
He wakes--they with a letter come--
He wanders in his indolence;
He was a dangerous fool indeed.
He was a dear delightful fool--
He was an honest gentleman,
He was deceived. Just as before
He was in error; for Eugene
He was no fool, and Eugene mine,
He was no more! The youthful bard
He well-nigh lost the use of sense,
He who economy abhorred,
He who hath suffered ofttimes shrinks
He who life's frosts which early wrung
He whom we sing to shall be made
He will delight you, I am sure,
He with an innocence extreme
He with his little maiden played,
He witnessed tenderly and moved
He would not that a man ye slay
He writes upon his parents' tomb,
He wrote ('tis the romantic style,
He wrote and spoke, so all allowed,
He yawns, averts his countenance,
He's a freemason, so we think.
He's a straightforward little chap."
"He's here! Eugene is here!
Heard he the truth? And thus she could--
Hearing the fatal perfidy?
Hears not my importunity!
Heart would not throb albeit in jest--
Heaved an involuntary sigh
Heavy his heart with anguish grew;
Heedless of your despairing cry?Eugene, his pistol yet in hand
Her agitation and distress
Her all in all did constitute;
Her amorous experience
Her antiquated mode of speech,
Her bosom heaves whilst crimson hues
Her bow was easy, unreserved.Ah no! no faintness her attacked
Her brow she did not e'en contract
Her cap of tulle still ever wears:
Her caps and night-dresses to mend.As for her spouse he loved her dearly,
Her cheek of rosy loveliness
Her cheek reclines upon her hand.Oh! who her speechless agonies
Her eye with fire unwonted gleams.
Her eyes no saucy glance address,
Her eyes were of cerulean blue,
Her features no grimaces bleared;
Her feet the earth beneath her press!
Her figure perfect grows with time!
Her foot was in my other hand.
Her friend Monsieur Finemouche the same,
Her garden, and those books of hers,
Her girlish gaiety and sport.
Her glance how wild yet genial!
Her Grandison was in the Guard,
Her hand for the cotillon prays.
Her handkerchief she loses now;
Her head upon her breast declines
Her health, life's sweetness and its bloom,
Her heart how full of gentleness,
Her heart importunately turns.
Her heart more loudly and more fleet.She hesitates, in doubt is thrown--
Her heart: it seemed a darksome pit
Her house he enters, ghastly white,
Her husband was a bridegroom then,
Her in the pitfalls which we place.
Her inmost soul had penetrated,
Her lips where light smiles come and go!
Her locks were of a golden hue,
Her manners were deliberate,
Her Martin Zadeka in aid,
Her money counted, and designed
Her Moscow cousin, often told
Her movements, voice and figure slight,
Her nurse, who could have made a guess,
Her on a shaky bench sit down;
Her passion's faithful counterpart,
Her path across the plain doth keep--
Her promptings unto law did make,
Her sacred hoard of joy and tears,
Her sentimental verses all,
Her shaggy myrmidon in chase.
Her shoulder--Olga swiftly came--
Her shoulders, breast and face to lave--
Her sisterhood delights the young
Her smile and maidenly repose,
Her spacious fields and shady groves,
Her steppe-like beauties I peruse
Her suit before my parents pressing:
Her tears and her dishevelled hair;
Her tears flow plentifully and
Her the ideal which he dreamed,
Her toilette's antiquated style,
Her tresses curled in fashion saw,
Her utterances ever heard,
Her weary eyes are filled with tears--
Her with a smile old women greet,
Her wolf-dog and her husband tame;
Herds low, and under night's dark veil
Here an old witch with hirsute beard,
Here bottles stand in close array,
Here, drunk with his late victory,
"Here, he resides with Simeon.
Herein my portrait should detect,
Herself not knowing well the reason,
Hewn, hacked, and otherwise ill-used.
Hid in the gondola's dark shade,
Highways all Russia will unite
Him a disquietude did seize,
Him who inspired both love and awe,
Himself just like a greenhorn fell.
Himself transformed into a hack;
His ardent soul with full delight.
His arm he offers. Mute and sad,
His bit with foam besprinkled o'er,
His book-shelf instantly doth drape
His breast was riddled through and through,
His butting horns in anger bent,
His care unto his pistols' plight,
His chair, plate, knife and fork in haste;
His chambers close wherein confined
His character attracted me.
His comedies, a noisy rout,
His constant soul could ever tire,
His course unto the running brook.
His cup unto his maiden dear.
His daily occupations, lo!
His daughter's book to ascertain
His ditties were as pure and bright
His double sashes and his grate,
His elegies, which plenteous streamed,
His energy and impotence.And numerous pages had preserved
His entrance with Oneguine. "Ah!
His eyes, the printed lines betwixt,
His fate shall presently decide.
His fist Oneguine fiercely shook
His footing on the treacherous rime
His Frenchman, good Monsieur Guillot,
His friends and also enemies
His friendship I acquired just then;
His furs are powdered on the way
His gusts should fertilize, amend,
His hand, and fell. His clouded eye
His harp beneath that sky had rung
His hate by slander, and who spends
His head sinks slowly, rests upon
His heart reciprocated still
His Hellespont from bank to bank,
His housekeeper was wont to scold,
His immorality of mind
His inner consciousness laid bare,
His intellect in close array.
His kneeling posture he retains--
His lyre, to silence now consigned,
His momentary loving glance
His mother from the door doth scold.
His mournful heart no peace could find,
His name: the tenderness of home
His neighbour's lowly tomb and mourned
His own antagonists expert,
His pony sniffing the fresh snows
His recent glory he invokes.
His relative and friend as well.
His ruffian bravery adored,
His shop, a night-cap on his head,
His son and mortgages his lands.
His son is married, just conceive!""And he--but of him presently--
His song, when still he slumbered deep,
His soul by crash of music fired,
His spirit sank with strange delight.
His spirit was intent upon.
His sunken eye and aspect faint,
His tea with rum no more desired,
His transports were quite maidenly,
His travels like all other things
His uncle, busy man indeed,
His valet brings him letters three.
His vanity first let us pique
His visit she had not awaited,
His wadded coat and cap with peak;
His watch, the sun in turn he views--
His weary head declined at rest,
His wife approaches, with him leads
His wife was also mad upon
Hissed forth. With serious air indeed,
Homer, Theocritus, he jeered,
Honour and pride inflexible.
Hope to conceal and jealousy,
Hope with her fascinating power
Hopeless are all the first, I own,
Hopes, frolics, dreams and sentiment
Horror of sinfulness and shame,
Horror! had she not better stay
How artless was the note which spoke
How bitterly he would malign,
How bright and tender was his look,
"How came you then to wed a man?"--
How charming Olga's shoulders grow!
How dark the night is getting though!
How deftly could he transport feign!
How empires store of wealth unfold,
How flourish, why and wherefore less
How full of fire his speech would glow!
How I have erred and felt the rod!
How like a poet was my chum
How like the billow I desired
How mean, how pusillanimous!
How meekly then I heard you preach--
How much is in that word expressed!
"How now, Oneguine, yawning still?"--
How oft beneath the moonbeams pale
How oft the kindly Muse away
How oft to the Crimean shore
"How often in thine arms I lay;
How perfect doth our epoch grow!
How pleasantly the evening jogs
How sick to death his uncle lay
How soon he learnt deception's art,
How soon to habits she conformed
How sweet a dream your memories raise!
"How Tania grows! Doth it appear
How the young imp on Tania doted!
How thoroughly her part she took!
How thy hands burn!"--"Dear nurse, I'm well.
How with thy medal I would play,
How! from the waste of steppes unseen,"--
However cherries might abound,
However, Tania's letter reading,
However, the mazurka lacks
Howl like a dolt: 'tis meant for me!
Hung like a print against the wall,
Hung on a pine branch earthward drawn
Hurrah! it long ago was time!
Huts, chemists, Cossacks, shopkeepers
Hymen's embarrassments, distress,
I also wandered there of old,
I am acquainted with fresh care,
I am in love, my hour hath come!
"I am in love, nurse! leave me now."
I am not strong enough to state;
I am not worthy them in aught;
I am--in love--you know--don't tell!"
I Apuleius gladly read
I ask, all ye who poets are,
I blame not your behaviour--
I by the button-hole seize fast
"I call to witness God on high--"
I can't conceive a little dear
I can't translate the adjective.
I cannot help it I declare,
I cannot longer wage concealed.
I cannot tell on what pretence--
I cannot tell the reason why,
I cannot understand. But lo!
"I celebrate a comrade young
I did not please you. Why pursue
I envied sore the billows tall,
I feel thou wast by God sent down
I feel, allotted is my span;
I flushed up, stupefied I grew,
I formerly admired her much
I guard it as a holy thing,
I had found my predestinate,
I have dreamed many a vision fair
I have endured without respite.
I have it. Lo! the very thing!
I have no leisure here to dwell,
I hear your harsh, reproachful cry.
I heard thy voice's resonance
I just hint, in parenthesis,
I know not if his heart felt pain
I know that Parny's tender pen
I know there's none more amiable.But from the interview what flowed?
I lift a warning voice because
I like the difference to express
I long by ballets have been bored,
I long enough deceived have erred.
I long have ceased to offend the laws.Alas! life's hours which swiftly fly
I love its furious delight,
I love them, O my dear Elvine,
I love you with a brother's love,
I love you--to what end deceive?--
I loved you--what did I obtain?
I married--now, I supplicate--
I mean my name not to repeat."
I might to connoisseurs repeat
I mourn, but tears I cannot shed--
I murmur not! Why mournfulness?
I mused: perhaps the matter's squared--
I must resign myself, in sooth;
I never should have seen your face
I on my chosen hero dote;
I once forgot for your sweet cause
I owe the censorship a little.
I prefer sensible Bordeaux.
I promised!--Did I so?--Well, there!
I sail upon my lake at times
I say without poetic phrase,
I see you weep. Those tears of yours
"I shall expire," Tattiana cried,
I should alarm our friendship tried:
I slumber much, a little read,
I thank thee for thy joyfulness,
I thank thee. In thy company,
I the same admonition make.
I then resolved my heart to tear;
I thought--retirement, liberty,
I tremble lest my humble prayer
I uttered to my lady fair
I was half silly with affright.
I was incensed and he was sad.
"I weep. And if within your breast
I will descant on love's sweet dream,
I will not wed, and ever weeps
"I with my friend intend to fight!"If he had only known the wound
"I won't detain you; but 'tis hard
I would desire my bride to be--
I would not part with finally;
I would your vigilance arouse,
I would, my friends, inscriptions write,
I write, and anguish flies away,
I yield for splendid vanities,
I yield the fruit of work severe.
I yield with a low reverence;
I'll pass beneath the firmament,
I'll sprinkle thee with holy water.--
I'm beaten in another matter;
"I'm happy, say, is it not so?"--
I'm not for witchcraft now inclined.
I'm o'er it ever pondering.
I've had to make for having friends!But how? Quite so. Though I dismiss
I've scanned it with a jealous eye,
I've wasted in amusements vain,
I, after so much eloquence,
"Ideal," he had drowsy grown.
Ideas, desires and woes confuse
Idolatry of liberty,
If but to lighten Time's dull rate,
If cleverly or not I prate.But, O ye tomes without compare,
If his hot hand encountered hers,
If in the scenes of home I might
If not, the money I will lend."
If Olga smilingly approve,
If seriously he hath disease;
If the choice in my power were,
"If the domestic hearth could bless--
If the fond hope I could have fanned
If the poor maiden could have guessed
If the raw product they possess
If they but heard domestic loads
If they were similar in aught.
If thou wert sitting by my side,
If wife and children to possess
If ye but knew how dreadful 'tis
Illusions, dream, where, where your sweetness?
Imagination's sacred fires,
Imagine! Here alone am I!
Immersed in melancholy thought,
Immersed in secret thought I stand
Impatient waits the close of day,
Impatient, boiling o'er with wrath,
Impatiently the gallery stamps,
Impelled by Spring's dissolving beams,
Impelled by zeal for moral worth,
Impelled to union with his own
Imperial portraits hang around
Impetuously clove its way
Imploring looks and mute complaint
Impressed him in the least degree,--
Impressionable for an hour,
Imprudent prattle of the heart,
In a half-open dressing-gown
In a lax or informal way,
In age the memory gets worse,
In aimless ease and far from strife,
In amorous flights when so inspired,
In books he saw nought to condemn
In boston and the game of age,
In bud of promise incomplete,
In bullets, sabres, and in fight.His malady, whose cause I ween
In charming fashion mutilate?
In clouds of steam above perceive.
In coach or post-cart duly placed
In column blue the smoke doth rise;
In company, or simply bowed,
In consultation stand aside--
In correspondence been allowed.
In country solitude you mope,
In country towns, where still it keeps
In course of time (the whole extent
In dreams and what the moon foretold
In dressing-gown at meals appeared.
In dressing-gown, a cuckold glad:
In duel having killed his friend
In fact, some people were assured
In former years thus did not I
In fresh discourse. Such, love, thou art!He was most gay. The happy date
In haunts of fashion where each day
In her affairs ne'er interfered,
In her friends' albums, time had been,
In history he took no pleasure,
In hopes of everlasting fame
In horror for itself alone,
In idleness and tranquil joy
In jersey and in nightcap lay.
In life domestic see a string
In little maidens of thirteen?
In love adventures she was versed,
In love's campaigns Oneguine heard
In love, although its tempests vex,
In love-lorn meditation sad.
In many things had changed his life--
In melancholy loveliness,
In mist profound all yet is hid.
In monsters and fair dames was rich;
In mother Winter's strange caprice.
In motley and amusing chase.
In much his conduct stigmatized;
In mud and mire to wallow deep,
In old age life is weariness!"
In Olga's album, youthful maid,
In Olga's and Tattiana's rooms
In Olga's face no life's displayed.
In one great shout: she's mine! she's mine!"Mine!" cried Eugene with savage tone.
In one he doth accounts behold,
In one of thine enchanting lays
In one thing really did excel.
In order due the maidens pull;
In pages of a love narration
In poor Moldavia cast her lot,
In rhyming I show laziness.
In Russ her love made manifest,
In scarlet cap revolving glides.
In scarlet sash and sheepskin trim;
In scenes like these it may be though,
In sensual sweets his soul doth steep
In serious mood or dalliance
In silence shall I sit and yawn
In snow she sinks up to the knee;
In solid, unpretentious style,
In solitude or worldly din,
In some a willing martyrdom.
In spectacles and chestnut wig.
In spite of common sense we're wont
In spring-time, heard the cygnet's note
In springtime on the meadows green,
In such an album with delight
In Tania's praise in pouch he brought,
In that morass where you and I
In the beginning of this lay,
In the beginning, cold and mute,
In the broad meadow a gay rout,
In the dawn of existence drear.
In the first place, say, am I right?
In the French language perfectly,
In the lone garden and the lane?
In the Lyceum's noiseless shade
In the meantime her spirit sinks,
In the meantime the mill inspects.
In the recesses what hath stirred
In the unfettered hours of leisure
In the unmoved, magnificent
In the world's mortal revelries,
In the world's vortex my success,
In thee, thou world of empty bliss.In groups, official striplings glance
In their sterility of prattle,
In this case quite mistaken was.
In three weeks would arrive for them;
In thy imagination warm,
In time I'll give ye without fail
In times gone by thy bare command--"
In tranquil flow. The beetle hums.
In true interpretation hates:
In truth he had the happy trick
In vain my anxious eyes appeal;
In vain was youth by us received,
In vehicles surcharged with freight;
In what he merely acquiesced.
In whispers low the neighbours said:
In winter by its blank and dim
In winter on the fender bright,
In winter time would often come.
In winter, when Night longer holds
In worldly din or solitude
In yarns of youthful troopers gay,
In your young days and also mine),
Incessantly his chains to break."I still a complication view,
Incited by his stormy Muse
Incorrigible rogue, doth go.
Indeed, by force of magnetism
    Indifferent and sedate,
Indifferent he became to all,
Indifferent was her future fate.
Indites an inconsiderate scroll
Inflict annoyance and distress
"Inform me, prince, pray dost thou know
Inhabited the country, clad
Inheritor of all his race.
Inns there are none. Pretentious but
Insensible her hand remains
Inseparable from our lot;
Inseparable soon they be.
Inseparable they remained.
Inside clink glasses, cries resound
Inspired but weariness intense;
Inspired by whom this tenderness,
Inspired him with disgust and so
Instructed jestingly the boy,
Interrogation to denote.And my Tattiana now began
Into accounts would sometimes look,
Into delicious bondage gave
Into the chamber where he slept
Into the cups already sped
Into the district then to boot
Into the lonely house she went,
Into the starry night extend.
Into the study of the boy
Into the tangled garden goes
Into thy hands my fate I yield!No answer! He another sent.
Intoned it, manuscript in hand.
Introduce verse in conversation.
Invigorate imagination
Is cocked once more. Uneasy grown,
Is ever ready to proclaim
Is ever ready with relief,
Is ever thus. With frowning brow
Is full of frigid jealousy,
"Is he known to you?"--"Yes and No."Wherefore regarding him express
"Is he the same or grown more wise?
Is it a dream, and can it be?
Is it for long?"--"Ma chere cousine!"
Is it not true? the objects fair,
Is it not truth? in tones suppressed
Is it that ardent souls of flame
Is it that human restlessness
Is it that I am now compelled
Is no more cherished amongst men.
Is occupied with Olga fair,
Is once again made manifest.
Is petted by the Emperor?--
Is seen next pine-apples of gold.
Is still condemned in love to be;
Is sweeter than thy Helen foul.No one the contrary will urge,
Is the world to him sealed and dumb?
Is waning. Yonder valley deep
Istomina the nimbly-bounding;
It blew: it howled: till winter e'en
It carries of antiquity
It gradually possessed his mind;
It matters not. Hope e'en to these
It may be that his martyred shade
It may be that I did proceed--
It may be ye were born, or there
It may be, I yield nutriment!
It now to investigate is time,
It occupied him from a boy,
It wakens in my breast again.
It was a cheery, generous
It whiled his idle hours away
It will be by a mob beset
Its cold unfeeling sentences;
Its driver seated on the rim
Its ebullition foaming white
Its insignificance I know
Its name, my friends, was Martin Zadeka,
Its passions and its modes of thought.The butt of scandal having been,
Its splendour and its blandishments,
Its stamping, capers and high leaps.
Its waters to the neighbouring vale.
Ivan Petrovitch still a gaby,
Jackdaws on every spire--in scores.
Jaws are at work. On every side
Jealousy and vexation took
Jilted--glad of a holiday.
Journeys and warriors to wed.
Judge then what roses would be ours,
Just as he entered. How severe!
Just at a moment which I grieve
Just at that time his father died,
Just at the hour we designate
Just at this moment I cannot.
Just before dinner-time he slept,
Just manages a feeble trot
Just placed the entrance door ajar.
Just so! that modest swain is blest
Keep your accounts! You'd rather not?
Kept lingering on as loath to go,
Kept the accounts, shaved many a crown,
Kibitkas three, the accustomed train,
Killed! at this dreadful exclamation
Knew not an iamb from a choree,
Know that thy face that day I see.
Know that your sarcasm ill-suppressed,
Known unto children perfectly:
_Kvass_ needful was to them as air;
Ladies in crowds around her close,
Laid down his life of sun and storm
Lament, embrace upon that grave.
Lamp-posts, shops, sledges, families,
Landscapes thereon he would design,
Lapped in your Eastern luxury,
Late in the afternoon to rise,
Latest arrivals' salutations,
Latin is just now not in vogue,
Lay all the girls by sleep embraced,
Lay languishing both day and night--
Lead into good society,
Leaning against the dam expects,
Learn Russian, but the Lord defend!
Learn to possess more self-control.
Leisurely through the gateway glides.
Lenski as a good match received,--
Lenski at intervals would dare,
Lenski his comrade did invite.
Lenski his pencil-case took out
Lenski replied, and soon they be
Lenski the foeman's apparition
Lenski the stroke could not sustain,
Lenski unto the dame replied,
Lenski, into confusion thrown,
Lenski, unhappy victim, fell,
Lessons to give he understood!How soon he learnt to titillate
Lest jaded with satiety,
Lest the malicious reader or
Lest the world or her lord divine
Let me explain that in my song
Let me present ye to the man,
Let not the poet's spirit freeze,
Let us go seek a little rest--
Let us proceed unto a rill,
Life lies extended, vast and bright,
Lifts not her eyes which swimming fail.
Light sallies without coxcombry,
Like a Bacchante in her sport
Like a full moon magnificent.
Like a true Frenchman, couplets wrought
Like Byron, bard of scorn and pride,
Like D when dinner doth inspire.Destiny hath preserved his lay.
Like down from Aeolus's lip,
Like him renouncing vanity,
Like Hippocrene it scatters light,
Like Horace, planted cabbages,
Like Leonora did she ride
Like rotten leaves by Autumn strown--
Like smoke athwart the heaven blue;
Like Venus when, capriciously,
Like you and me and all the rest?--
Likewise an epitaph with tears
List! the snow crunches--he draws nigh!
Listen to me without disdain.
Listless is she the livelong day
Lived as a really wise man ought,
Lo! at thy feet my tears I pour
Lo! compassed by his grove of oaks,
Lo! in my garden was she found
Lo! my Oneguine free as air,
Lo! my Oneguine rural lord!
Lo! on the sleeping river borne,
Lo! poured in a thin gray cascade,
Lo! the prim cat upon the stove
Lo! through the frozen windows play
Lo! with what pride celestial
Lo, the ambassador who speaks
Lofty the chambers one and all,
Long ago, prostrate at her feet.
Long ago. Dream it cannot be!
Long ago?"--"'Tis the second year."
Long ceased to be a reading man,
Long in this fashionable cell
Long listen, comprehend the whole
Long since I held thee at the font--
Long time her young imagination
Long time in meditation deep
Long tortured by his lay divine,
Long, long the hour had past when home
Longer the East inert reclines
Longtime her mind is occupied.
Longtime her tears flowed thick and fast;
Longtime was her heart desolate
"Look quickly to your left, my sweet!"
Look through the window and kill flies.
Looks upon all with absent gaze
Looms gray behind the mist and morn
Lord Byron's portrait on the wall
Lost in the hamlet far away.And in addition youth is flame
Loud paws the earth each panting horse,
Loud snores the cumbrous Poustiakoff
Love to idealize inclined;
Love to inspire doth woe appear
Love's tender transports and distress,
Luceria Lvovna paint applies,
Mad spirit of the man who rhymes
Madame de Stael, Bichat, Tissot:
Made me so tipsy long ago!
Made revelations undesigned,
Madman, wilt thou from memory raze
Maid whom my heart desires alone,
Maidens before her meekly move
Maids in the corner whisper low;
Make up your mind to go there."--"Ah!
Malek Adel and De Linar,
Malicious and a slanderer.
Malignant fury they disclose,
Man--forty years long in this wise--
Many an ancient legend which
Manzoni, Herder and Chamfort,
Mark ye with what a modest air
Marmontel also, tome the third;
Matrons unto the fireplace go,
May be that I by heaven's decrees
May be the empire of the sense,
May be, and this my terror wakes,
May find a crumb to satisfy.
May well in innocence impart.
May yet be studious of his nails;
Me now, inflict upon me pain?--
Me your perfections would not bless;
Meadows and cornfields are displayed,
Meagre, within a draughty hut,
Meals, secrets, occupations shared?
Meantime a Cyclops of those parts
Meantime I'll finish whilst I can
Meantime in matutinal dress
Meantime Oneguine's apparition
Measured with great exactitude.
Meet punishment for him provide.
Meeting you in times past by chance,
Men become friends from idleness.But even thus not now-a-days!
Men love no more, as only the
Men opposite. The cross they sign
Men will forget me, but my urn
Mends with the Russian hammer's blows
Merciful God, what will he deem?"
Method was dear unto his heart
Metreless verses recognizing
'Mid worldly pleasures chased him yet,
Mine own ideal, the mountain maid,
Minutely I will now portray.
Miraculously fair arise,
Misunderstanding, words and blows.
Modest yet daring! And a tear
Moina recalls for this alone
Monsieur clean out of doors they chase.
"Monsieur l'Abbe" a starving Gaul,
Morality taught scarce at all;
More advantageously appear
More blooming than the Boreal flame
More clearly, God be praised, the man,
More crimson every moment they.
More satisfaction to her taste.
More swift the room Tattiana fled,
More timid than a doe long chased,
More troublesome than usual?"--"No!
Morning awakes with joyous sound;
Morning's forerunners, breezes blow
Mortally sick I am indeed.
Moscow
Moscow approach on bended knees,
Moscow! How much is in the phrase
Moscow's young Graces at her stare,
Moscow, how oft in evil days,
Moscow, Russia's darling daughter,
Most by this circumstance offended
Most carefully Zaretski placed
Most usually a Cossack horse
Motionless, mute, tight-laced and trim.
Mountains we'll level and through deep
Mournful is thine approach to me,
Mournful Love's deadly trace appears
Mushrooms for winter salted down,
Must be pronounced unfortunate--
Must bow in common courtesy;
Must e'en despise his kind at last;
Must now my stanzas occupy.Tattiana was her appellation.
Must take a walk and rest a bit--
Must visit them. Come! you must own,
Mute glances interchanged aside
Mute, solemn, frowning gloomily.
Mutual destruction to contrive.
Mutual repulsion and ennui,
My beauty, thou art ready too.
"My chum lives here," Bruin grunts out.
My country and an exile's lot;
My country's honour and repute
"My darling child, thou art in pain.--
"My darling, growing old am I!
My days of life approach their end,
My doom has been pronounced on high,
My famous portrait indicate
My friend, 'tis but to pay a debt,
My friends, what means this odd digression?
My frivolous and jolly youth.
My goddesses, where are your shades?
My gratitude do not disdain,
My guardian angel to the grave.
My heart of old would captivate.
My heart with but one look revive;
My heart's allegiance can resign,
"My heart's delight, thou art not well."--
My heroine, Tattiana dear.Vladimir, hourly more a slave
My image hath not disappeared,
My joy in youth was fleeting e'en
My light productions to retain,
My little book. With thee I knew
My lot is fixed--with thoughtlessness
My lyre sings sweeter in the shade
My memory wandered wide and sought
My morning birdie, yesternight
My mother-in-law who lately died
My mournful fate in verse to weave,
My neighbour, who by chance drew near,
My pen no longer finds delight,
My poor Tattiana cannot sleep
My poor Vladimir! In the tomb,
My poor Vladimir, bitter tears
My pretty self-deceiving maid--
My scholar without aptitude
."My second!" cried in turn Eugene,
My soul I cannot renovate--
My soul is filled with gratitude!
My spirit and my blood doth move,
My spirit with such pangs before.Another time, so willed it Fate,
My splendid house and gaieties--
My sportive Muse I used to take
My sum of happiness contained;
My tongue is somewhat rusty now.Tattiana! sweet Tattiana, see!
"My uncle's goodness is extreme,
My unpretending page shall fill,
My venerated reader, oh!
My verses, kindly meant, would earn
My very latest composition!
My word of honour given have I.The tea, as I remarked, appeared,
My wretched Lenski's fate I mourn,
Mysteriously all objects near
Nags eighteen to the door are driven.
Napoleon tarried till it please
Nay! even as this instant fled,
Nay, near--but destiny decreed--
Ne'er touched her fingers indolent
Ne'er trusted to the treacherous ace.When, wise at length, we seek repose
Near Khariton's in a side street
Near young Tattiana resident,
Nearer they come--Eugene appears!
Nearest and dearest knew not how
Neighbour by neighbour sat and snored,
Never for me to reappear--
Never upon my heroine
Next Saturday. The Larina
Night separated from her spouse,
No coquetry was there, I vouch--
No fond illusions live to soothe,
No gift she bears, no feast proclaims,
No greater pleasure can exist
No longer through her former home;
"No matter, look immediately.
"No misery I see in that"--
No more at dawn the shepherd will
No more remembered him; unto
No more the music thunders loud,
No more the village knows his face,
No more with pale Diana's rays,
No novelty--is it not true?--
No obstacle of which I know.
No one appeared to lend a hand.
No one my anguish comprehends,
No other book had time to read.
No other than Oneguine mine.
No sense was ever manifest
No senseless fashionable lay
No signs of trouble her accused,
No time to pick it up! afraid,
No trace ye left in passing by
No, ever to behold your face,
No, never in the early blaze
Noblesse and models of the mode,
None could a trace of that impute,
None could her beautiful declare,
None the conviction could withstand
None, be my witness Heaven above!
(Nonsense and pure absurdity,
Nor almanacs nor newspapers,
Nor at the hour of noon with sound
Nor aught confides unto the rest.Tattiana would have gladly heard
Nor beauties of far distant lands
Nor boston nor the world's affairs
Nor by her beauty she became
Nor by her sister's brilliancy
Nor Byron, Walter Scott, nor Seneca,
Nor dares the skirting of her dress
Nor did her blushes fade away,
Nor died nor lost his senses quite.
Nor discontinued to distress
Nor doth my absent pen portray
Nor enough strength of mind possessed
Nor even tears afford respite,
Nor frigid adulation paid.
Nor from the mob polite estranged,
Nor further comment that night made.
Nor homage which the Muse demands
Nor in his dreams anticipates
Nor interest in aught betrays.
Nor long his mind was agitated
Nor marked how summer's prime had fled
Nor on the letter yet hath she
Nor precepts sage nor pictures e'en,
Nor shall my pen paint terribly
Nor shall the bud of yesterday
Nor shall the caterpillar come
Nor slander viciously could spread
Nor sparkled with poetic fire,
Nor study, banquet, rout nor ball
Nor sudden turned she red or white,
Nor tender glance nor amorous sigh
Nor the _Journal des Modes_, I vouch,
Nor the first snow of winter seize
Nor the frost particles inhale
Nor true unto her sorrow kept.
Nor wit, nor did the same inspire
Nor years of separation all
Nor yet her lip compressed did bite.
Not a bad fellow was her father
Not a mere hot, pugnacious boy,
Not agony, but death expressed.
Not all will like myself proceed--
"Not at all."--"That I can't conceive!
Not bristled up like a wild beast,
Not daring to cast back her eyes.
Not even a poetic phrase,
Not high in general estimation;
"Not in the least, assured am I!"--
Not knowing its interpretation,
Not only sorrow--Ah! my dear,
Not seeking love but sensual sweets.
Not so! My Moscow never went
Not that she had his works perused,
Not the least trace Oneguine sees
Not the young timid maid, believe,
Not to behave as he did once--
Not, and a flood of bitter tears
"Nothing, good nurse, there's nothing wrong,
Nought but of dinners a long row,
Nought from his pen did ever flow,
Nought in the universe refused:
Nought of its charms original
November at the gate did stand.The morn arises foggy, cold,
Now a long branch itself entwined
Now all things round about repeat
Now buffoon, glutton, and a bore.
Now Didelot scarce can be endured!"Snakes, satyrs, loves with many a shout
Now don't be cross with me, my soul,
Now for the first time I my Muse
Now for the jealous youth what joy!
Now gloomy seemed and cheerful now,
Now her lithe form she arches o'er
Now I am fit for nothing here.
Now I am ready to refuse.
Now it is ready to be sent--
Now of a family the head,
Now talkative, now reticent;
Now the sweet little shoes she wore,
Now we must separate. Good-bye!
Now with what eager interest
Now, as in a deserted house,
Now, like hereditary foes,
"Nurse, leave me. I would be alone.
Nurses who scream and babes who bleat.
O Brenta, once more we shall meet
O epic Muse, my powers increase
O feet, where'er your path extends
O Men, how very like ye are
O my Svetlana.'--Joukovski
O Spring, thou chosen time of love!
O triumphs of my guileless days,
O yes! my hopes soon disappeared."
O'er all a sheet of silvery dust
O'er hillock and o'er meadow throws.
O'er my remains to drop a tear,
O'erspread with Winter's carpet bright,
O'erwhelmed with guests; by families
Obedient then to Nature's law,
Obedient to the magic strings,
Obedient to warm Spring's commands.
Obeyed the impulses of heart?--
Oblivion of life's tempest dire,
Obsequious or indifferent!
Odes Lenski also had outpoured,
Of "comme il faut." Shishkoff, forgive!
Of a heart cold and cynical?
Of a most mournful episode,
Of a strange night when the moon and--
Of a young dark-eyed country maid,
Of affectation innocent,
Of Africa, ancestral land,
Of all the guests within his mind.Certainly not Eugene alone
Of bassoons and of flutes the strain.
Of censure for the same incurred;
Of Christmas carols, song and dance;
Of churches, gardens, belfries high
Of clamorous geese flew southward bound.
Of clarinet or flute doth cry:
Of consolation all bereft--
Of conversation, thought and aims--
Of course Tattiana was annoyed
Of creditors a hungry rout
Of diplomats and warlike beaux
Of drawing-rooms or old or new.
Of dreary Russia left behind,
Of error and the passions' strife.
Of every sort and every set!"--
Of fashionable dames the foe,
Of fiery youth's untutored days
Of fleeting glory take no heed.
Of foreign whims the impersonation--
Of frantic laughter, and all eyes
Of friends the grateful intercourse--
Of friends unceremonious would
Of frivolous existence, friends;
Of happy meetings thou shalt dream,
Of harmony enshrining thought.
Of her provincial innocence
Of his approach; but nothing cared
Of horn in circle call them round.
Of keen sarcastic intellect
Of kindly, dim antiquity,
Of lackeys in her pathway grouped,
Of languor and of love did tell
Of late I have been quite absurd,--
Of Levshin's school ye followers,
Of life or death predestinate.
Of London life is "vulgar" called
Of love again, and yet again;
Of love which whilom Petrarch sung.
Of maids dost thou inscribe thy song?
Of many an economic scheme;
Of migratory gipsy hordes--
Of mines and meadows, woods and lakes,
Of modern Russians the disease.Bouyanoff, wrathful cousin mine,
Of my impassioned heroine.
Of my light paramour was proud.
Of old maids the divinity,
Of Olga he in song averred;
Of one thing till again we met.
Of passion reminiscences,
Of passion they so often raise.
Of pictures painful harrowing,
Of priceless value all things seem
Of roses to romancers dear;
Of rural life the sluggish stream;
Of Russian domesticity;
Of serfs the farewell wail have given.
Of slumbering citizens he fleets,
Of splendid carpets richly wrought.
Of such a dread hallucination.
Of sunset glow with rosy light,
Of tender years the modesty
Of thankless friends the circle rose,
Of the AEneid, but incorrect.
Of the commencement of the piece.
Of the cup brimming o'er with wine--
Of the domains of the side-scene.
Of the horizon she is like!"--
Of the imperial Neva's shore.
Of the moon in the tranquil skies,
Of the night sentinels arise
Of the romances she preferred,
Of the sun glisten; muddy, worn,
Of the Tattiana of times fled.
Of thirty different sorts, lo! brushes
Of thy delights I drank my fill,
Of touching lightly every theme.
Of untold gain she must conceal,
Of Volga fishermen doth sing,
Of what he thought and what believed,
Of what not, and of distant dim,
Of which the rustling woods remind?
Of whirligigs were very fond,
Of widow Clicquot or Moet
Of woe: effaced the pathway now:
Of woods and fields the calm retreat,
Of your perfections in my soul,
Of youthful impulse, reverie,
Oft staring through the window pane
Oft upon friendly lips doth rise:
"Oh! how our years are vanishing!"But nothing changed in them is seen,
Oh! I accept. And instantly
"Oh! I remember, where is he?"--
"Oh! nurse, nurse, you don't understand!
Oh! on the fields of life how bloom
"Oh! what a fool our neighbour is!
Oh! what had been his eminence!
"Oh! whither have ye winged your way,
Oh! who is not calumnious?
'Oh, do not dream these fearful dreams,
Oh, how her lips compressed restrain
Oh, many a year hath run its course
Old age through spectacles too peers,
Old women at the coachmen swear.
Olga and Tania led. Malign,
Olga began to long likewise
Olga he sees before his eyes
Olga ran skipping from the door.
Olga the tea must supervise--
Olga with trepidation dire.
Olga's admirer came that day:
"Olinka is her junior, see.
Ombre, and whist all others worth:
Omens inspired her soul with fear,
On balls I madly used to dote,
On chairs in the saloon reposed,
On everything around her gaze,
On fresh allurements they are bent,
On guests their servants used to wait
On him spleen mounted sentinel
On horseback every day they ride--
On horseback gallop o'er the steppe!
On innocent delights I dote,
On iron bridges we shall gaze
On Lenski's matrimonial fate
On lines invisible are fixt;
On melted wax in water poured;
On pit, stalls, boxes, brightly blaze,
On raptures, sorrows not her own,
On such a day. O Heavens, 'tis she!
On Sundays by yon window he,
On sunny days the glistening rime,
On the blue blocks of ice the rays
On the dull stage find all things changed,
On the steppes of Moldavia lone,
On thee I used to meditate!
On thigh or temple, friend on friend.Resolved the flirt to cast away,
On Trinity Sunday yawned at prayer,
On unknown female forms he throws.
On us beyond the grave attends,
On waves by tempests curdled o'er!
On whom a sister's heart was set
On winters of the south a skit,
Once more, when she appeared in sight,
One image occupied his mind,
One instrument for his own use--
One moment's slumber suffer not.
One morn whilst yet in bed he lay,
Oneguine acted very well
Oneguine could not now submit,
Oneguine fired--Alas! alas!
Oneguine his excuses says;
Oneguine knew enough, the rogue
Oneguine lightning glances shot;
Oneguine meditative stood,
Oneguine ne'er as poet showed
Oneguine Olga bore away.
Oneguine oped the cupboards wide.
Oneguine sat the table by
Oneguine slowly then began
Oneguine then approached and said:
Oneguine to the window went
Oneguine waits on us, 'tis like."
Oneguine was a citizen
Oneguine was the most impressed,
Oneguine was--so many deemed,
Oneguine wasted; on my word,
Oneguine went with trepidation
Oneguine's cheek grew ashy pale,
Oneguine's letter!"--"Ah! the thing!
Oneguine's pencillings. His mind
Oneguine's speeches I abhorred
"Oneguine, all this sumptuousness,
Oneguine, bored to death again,
Oneguine, by first impulse moved,
Oneguine, hast forgotten yet
"Oneguine, I was younger then,
Oneguine, O my gentle readers,
Oneguine--take him up again--
Oneguine--the beloved place
Only her countenance assumed
Open the window--sit by me."
Opened the portals of the tomb
Opened with care, and entering bore
Openly or 'neath decent cloak.
Opens unto her visitor.
Oppressive now is happiness,
Oppressor of the wretched poor;
Or "Idol mio," and in the grate
Or a good fellow for the nonce,
Or a professor in tulle cap.
Or a swift hare from mead to mead
Or a swift meteor, may be,
Or any trifle else ye like
Or at a promenade mayhap,
Or better,--like a faithful wife.I was for calm existence made,
Or Bogdanovitch's sweet lays.
Or bosom full of languid fire,--
Or but for fame he saw the light;
Or by a card our homage pay,
Or by the ocean's rocky shore.
Or counting on his uncle's death
Or couplets more ingenious still;
Or did her tears soon cease to flow?
Or e'en Istomina, my dear,
Or e'en the "Demon" of my strain.
Or else ,
Or even overcome by wrath
Or even, silent and resigned,
Or faults of grammar on its page--
Or for the solitary tomb
Or he dispersed the motley crowd
Or ice and flame, are not diverse
Or if he meant to flirt again,
Or in a squabble to engage,
Or innocently past me fly.
Or into bold hands anxiously
Or kiss the border of her dress.To Olga frequently he would
Or letters of a maiden young.And by degrees upon him grew
Or Melmoth, gloomy wanderer he,
Or monster of Satanic pride,
Or other mask donned playfully?
Or parody of modern ways?Hath she found out the riddle yet?
Or quietly partake our woe.
Or recognized not in the crowd.
Or reconciled them, it may be,
Or suffering pride? Why is he there?
Or that adoring Grandison
Or the delivery of a note.
Or the mysterious Sbogar.
Or to disturb my dreams approach
Or to pick up her kerchief stooped.She seemed of him oblivious,
Or torturer malevolent?
Or vainly 'mid luxurious fare
Or will my melancholy glance
Or, after dinner's dull repast,
Or, as it were, the Freischutz' score
Or, beyond Lethe lulled to rest,
Or, heedless of the leaves' return
Or, it may be, we inly seek,
Or, parable more flattering,
Or, strange to me is happiness?
Or, when anew all Nature teems,
Or, with a pen and colours fit,
Original imagination,
Other and colder thoughts affright,
Our bridges long neglected rot,
Our dear old aunt, Princess Helene,
Our fathers used to dote upon;
Our godlike tongue she could exchange
Our heroes at full gallop sped,
Our idol, Honour's motive force,
Our liberty at least survives:
Our misanthrope was full of ire,
Our paradise is no more sweet.Ah! how Tattiana was transformed,
Our roads transformed the eye will strike;
Our tender dreamer had enrolled
Our union would produce but grief.
Our youthful wanderer should roam.
Ourselves as unities to count;
Outlandish and provincial,
Outside descend the mists of night.
Page after page continued reading,
Pair after pair the race sustain.
Pale as a ghost and dressed since morn
Pallid and melancholy face,
Pallid and with dishevelled hair,
Pardon I ask for such a sin--
Paris and Menelaus right.
Park, garden, palings, yard below
Passed into dull eternity,
Passes the torrent But alack!
Passion's wild sway I then allowed,
Past darkened windows and long streets
Past palaces and nunneries,
Past women, sentry-boxes, rolls,
Pedantic although scholar like,
Pelagie Nikolavna has
Pen, paper bring: the table too
Perceived that he was still beloved,
Perchance he will to all the three.
Perchance one more affectionate.
Perchance they laurels also cull--
Perchance upon the Neva e'en
Perchance where Dunia pours out tea
Perchance you also soon may burn,
Perched on a goose's neck a skull
Perish absorbed by Lethe's stream.
Perish when half disclosed its bloom!"--
Permit me; is it worth the trouble
Perused, Eugene in postchaise went
Perusing Gibbon and Rousseau,
Pervaded with much common sense.
Perverse, unfavourable views?
Petoushkoff met the selfsame doom.
Petoushkoff, the provincial swell;
Petrovski Palace! Gloomily
Petrovski Palace; come, astir!
Phials of crystal scents enclose.
Philanthropist or patriot,
Philosopher just turned eighteen.China and bronze the tables weight,
Pictures of the amusing scene,
Pink as Palm Sunday cherubim,
Placed at the customary range;
Placed in a sledge his terrier black,
Plates, knives and forks are clattering
Please follow this way, lady mine,
Please her by their decorum fixed,
Poetic transport did infuse,
Poetic transport. They impart
Poetical enthusiast,
Polite demeanour to preserve,
Poltroons and men of slanderous tongue,
"Poor Yorick," mournfully he said,
Portmanteaus and preserves in jars,
Portray the solitary den
Portrayed contemporary man
Possess my love and sympathy.
Possessed nor ease nor fluency,
Possession hath no power to please,
Pour on this orb a dazzling light
Pray is it he? It is the same.
Pray is it not a tough affair
Present me."--"You are joking."--"No."--
Presentiments oppressed her heart.
Presents her quarto amiably,
Preserves and an eternal prattle
Prevailed at last. She in reply
Priams of country populations
Proceeds, until she from a hill
Professions eagerly for deeds,
Profiles of lovely dames he knows
Prophecies, threats and apparitions,
Proud of his dinners and his wife!
Providence otherwise may deem--
Pursues phantasmagoria vain.Why is Tattiana guiltier deemed?--
Pursuits I followed of the crowd,
_Qu'ecrirer-vouz sur ces tablettes?_
Quarrels among young friends he bred
Questions and news and tittle-tattle,
Quick to the country let us wend
Quite a sensation; the position
Quite inadvertently meanwhile;
Raged round him and of balked desire!
Raises within my breast as oft
Raven, snowstorm, tempest, fog,
Reader, whoever thou mayst be,
(Readers expect the rhyme of _rose_,
Rebuffed--as quickly reassured,
Received him freely at her house,
Recent instructions of its mother.But Tania ne'er displayed a passion
Reduced with effort unto sense,
Reform me both in deed and word,
Regained authority awhile,
Rekindled in my withered heart
Relate some ancient history."
Remained unnoticed. Once he went
Remained with him the youthful maid.
Remains on earth the unseemly rage,
Remarkable. She then indeed
Removed her to his country seat,
Renowned for his acumen, wit,
Repentance wields not now her spell
Replace the visions fancy drew;
Replaced them in their box, undressed
Repose from labour, satire keen,
Repose her silken curtains fled,
Repose in peace, thou child of song_."
Rescue me from oblivion.Perchance some heart 'twill agitate,
Reserved, but not inanimate,
Resounding through all ages might
Restless Tattiana sleepless lay
Restrained the impulses of youth;
Retained the image, though short-lived,
Returning, from his ship amid
_Reveillez-vouz, belle endormie_.
Reviews both dress and countenance,
Rings from a dish of water full
Rings, tears, deceptions and intrigues,
Rogue and extortioner of yore,
Romance of love I pray refer,
Romances three, in which ye scan
Rooted unto the spot remained.As if against obstruction sore
Round which revolves the universe.
Rousseau and Richardson to boot.
Rousseau, I would remark in passing,
Rural LifeCanto The FourthThe less we love a lady fair
Russia's Terpsichore review
Said something in an undertone
Sailed silently in unison--
Sails her allotted course on high,
Saint Priest, who every album's page
Sang childhood's pastimes and its joy,
Sarcastic Shakhovskoi brought out
Satan will jest, and at love's cost.Oh! where bestow our love? Whom trust?
Saucepans and mattresses and chairs,
"Say, of the two which was Tattiana?"
Scarce credits what his eyes can see.Hark! the mazurka. In times past,
Scarce hadst thou entered thee I knew,
Scarce mindful of their love and guile.
Scarce to her questions he responds,
Scarcely in Russia can ye find
Scarlet as burnt by inward flame.
Scissors both straight and curved as well,
Scornfully challenged you afield--
Seated, a curious look with glasses
Secret excursions made in sleighs;
Secure in rural quietude--
_Sed alia tempora_. And bravery
Seductive cup of love, whose flow
Seductive, animated, bright,
See, I can hardly crawl about--
Seeing in this no deprivation,
Seek the forgotten countenance
Seeks, winding amid meadows still,
Seemed in a haze of green embowered.
Seems so unnatural and absurd:
Seen all, beside himself with wrath,
Sees where a noble mansion stood,
Selfish nonentities around?
Serious endeavours to assure
Servant of God and brigadier,
Serve who could neither read nor write.Time was, in style magniloquent
Seven days and nights the travellers plod.
Shaking with serious air the head,
Shall abdicate the bard's profession,
Shall I behold thee once again?"--
"Shall I proceed, or homeward flee?
Shall I your chorus hear anew,
Shall my declining years beguile;
Shall surely, be it soon or late,
"Shall we commence?"--"Let it be so,"
Shamefaced, Tattiana downward looked
Sharp rows of tushes, bony claws,
She bows her head beneath the crown;
She brought with her the gift of song.
She buries deep within her breast
She calm and unconcerned appears.The husband comes and interferes
She cannot draw a breath or stir.
She cannot--Eugene oped the door
She cannot--then impatiently
She comprehends. The simple maid
She consolation thence obtained--
She could not sleep in her new bed.
She deemed its outline might afford.
She did not think "procrastination
She dreamt she journeyed o'er a field
She drinks in those seductive deeds!
She enters a deserted yard--
She fears and like an arrow rushes
She fears she cannot.--Cannot? Why?--
She found herself alone at last,
She from the winter corn espies
She gazed around her--it was day.
She gazed thereon, and instant beat
She gazed--a cue, forgotten long,
She got a book of nursery tales,
She heard of servant-maids the note,
She hears of conversation nought
She hears the bear behind her press,
She heaves a sigh and deep intent
She hid the trouble of her breast,
She is an angel! We sometime
She led me through nocturnal mist
She leisurely away doth ride,
She mourned and to the moon would raise
She murmurs in an undertone
She muses: "What was Olga's fate?
She ne'er repeated unto hers.
She nerves herself from her alarm
She never more his face may view,
She never of deception dreamed
She on the apparition gazed,
She oped her eyes and cried: 'tis he!
She peeped through a chink of the door.
She promised Eugene, or she would
She rose--departed. But Eugene
She runs, the bear upon her trail,
She seeks the garden in her need--
She sits alone--'tis ever _she!_So frequently his mind would stray
She soon forgot, began to call
She starts, nor doth a word express,
She strains her throat to force a cry--
She struggled hard at first thus pent,
She the acquaintances she loves,
She the delicious novel reads,
She trembled and grew deadly pale.
She visited the humble tents
She waited for--I don't know whom!
She waits, on fire her trembling frame--
She wanders aimless as a sprite,
She was as heedless and as gay--
"She who with melancholy face
She will not see, she will not hear.
She wore her corset tightly bound,
She would pronounce _a la Francaise_;
She, than the morning moon more pale,
Shifts, tacks about, until they prate
Shines in the female firmament
Shone pungent Satire's dauntless king,
Should be respected throughout life
Should dearly like a dance again.
Should go, the market for a maid,
Should make me much more circumspect,
Should recompense his idle jeers,
Shouts of applause! Oneguine passes
Shouts, laughter, jamming 'gainst the wall,
Shrill sang the _samovar_ at eve,
Shy, silent did the maid appear
Sickness more courage doth command
Sighs on another than her lord
Silent, oracular ye'd see him
Silk tapestry upon the wall,
Silvers the brook; the shepherd's horn
Simeon Petrovitch just as shabby;
Similar dames ye may have seen.
Simple and kindly and unwed,
Since Fame and Freedom he adored,
Since I beheld Eugene and young
Since in these arms I thee did bear--
Since leisure was together spent,
Since words like pantaloons, vest, coat,
Sincerely loving him, Eugene
Singing God knows what maid admired,
Singing in chorus all the while.
Singing inside her hut the maid
"Sit down. How funny, to be sure!
Sit many monstrous shapes abhorred.
Sits by her gloomily, desponds,
Sits down and gazes on all sides--
Sledging, the snows, which at the time
Sleep in the shadowy couch enjoys,
Slept o'er the river misty grown.
Slow circling round its fellow swings
Slowly exhausted by desire,
Slumber still o'er him lingering flies.
Snorts, and his rider bends his course
(So 'twas with us in former years,
So ancient warriors, battles o'er,
So ardently did I desire
So be it! But internal strife
So be it! Just the laws which bid
So from the mountain lazily
So full of piety, correct,
So hearken, every worthy spouse,
So inaccessible to men,
So irremissible appear?O ye whom tender love hath pained
So let us to the ball-room haste,
So many neighbours here exist--
So meantime let him joyous live
So mouths they stopt with song, not fruit--
So prudent, and so circumspect
So she her silken sash unlaced,
So she in French herself expressed.
So Tania to her heart's content
So there will be a dance to-night.
So uncongenial to my mind,
So, when he came next day to call,
Society endures not such!
Society he duped enow."
Society renounced once more.
Sombre or glad in turn to be,
Some a mazurka occupies,
Some are afar and some are dead.
Some army poet therein may
Some day I'll somehow finish it.
Some future ignoramus shall
Some madrigal not worth a rush,
Some marriageable maids behold,
Some nice instructive novel read,
Some one or other editor
Some other long-departed Spring,
Some Russian authors he perused--
Some wretched journal in his hand;
Sometime collected, shall relate
Sometimes by pleasing flattery's art,
Sometimes by ready-made despair;
Soon the maid on a chair he seats,
Soon, of the tempest which hath fled
Sorrow to counterfeit and wail--
Sound sleep, books, walking, were his bliss,
Spanned the unbridled torrent o'er;
Spare yourself unavailing pain
Spared him not their asperities.
Spectacles upon nose, all day
Speech was so tame and colourless
Spins, whilst the friend of wintry night,
Spite of herself with Lenski's lot
Spoiled children most degenerate
Spring cheered him up, and he resigned
Spring summons you to her green bowers,
Spring's paramour, pours forth her song
Spurs of the Cavalier Guard clash,
Squeeze tiny hands and osculate;
Stately, devoid of prejudice,
Sterner solicitudes engage,
Stiff, overstarched and insolent,
Still certain authors, I may add,
Still doth the misanthrope appear?
Still eats and drinks enough for twain.Their daughters kiss Tattiana fair.
Still everywhere, without, within,
Still for ever fare thee well.'--Byron
Still happier he who ne'er hath known!
Still hopes, endeavours, though in vain.
Still of his club he member was--
Still sovereigns of his spirit were,
Still the loud stamping doth not cease,
Still they blow noses, cough, and sneeze,
Still thirst fresh draughts of wine compels
Stood as estranged from all aloof,
Stood as if struck by lightning fire.
Stops at the tomb in passing by;
Straight for the entrance then he made
Straight from the ball to bed he goes,
Straight from their province had he come?"--
Strange unto her each childish game,
Streams excavate subaqueous ways,
Strictly the Carnival observed,
Striking the intellect with awe
Struck Lenski dead--across the scene
Strummed by a timid schoolgirl o'er.I write to you! Is more required?
Subdued him, when his neighbour stept
Submissive as if in a swoon,
Subscribed, _toujours a vous, Annette;_
Successfully to please her tried,
Such am I. This did ye expect,
Such is the country custom good;
Such open-hearted innocence.
Such was Oneguine's sainted life,
Such were the musings of Eugene.
Sudden she stops, casts down her eyes
Suddenly to the left hand side,
Suitable for this semi-Russian.
Surveying them, she thus doth say:
Swearing how Lenski he would rile,
Sweet as the kiss of lovers sworn.
Sweet slumber winged its way and fled.
Sweet to behold him obstinate,
Sweeter it is, my friends, if he
Swift following in her wake, the sun,"
Tails which a bushy tuft adorns,
Take to their wings and fly away.But to Oneguine! _A propos!_
Tall, slender, like thy form designed,
Tania doth by the casement linger
Tania the meaning would obtain
Tania well nigh expired when he
"Tania, my eldest child, you know"--
Tania, observed by nobody,
Tattiana
Tattiana as enchanted stood;
Tattiana asks, and hurriedly
Tattiana blushed, her heart beat quick--
Tattiana by a poor aunt's side,
Tattiana certainly infers
Tattiana courage doth regain
Tattiana doth accept his aid;
Tattiana every day conferred
Tattiana faltered, and became
Tattiana finds in loneliness.
Tattiana from the hill descends
Tattiana gazed with curious eye
Tattiana gazes on the moon,
Tattiana gently led them there.And long her eyes as through a haze
Tattiana in a misty dream,
Tattiana in despair unfeigned
Tattiana in the yard appears
Tattiana in the young princess!
Tattiana in traditions old
Tattiana learns the intelligence--
Tattiana loved as when a lad,
Tattiana more than ever burned
Tattiana motionless abides.The strife grew furious and Eugene
Tattiana o'er the stream complained;
Tattiana purchased with a stray
Tattiana saw with trepidation
Tattiana suffered secretly;
Tattiana tears cannot restrain.The limits of enlightenment
Tattiana terrified awoke.
Tattiana thanks to all returned,
Tattiana through the forest erred,
Tattiana to a corner, bids
Tattiana to the index flies
Tattiana waits. No answer came!
Tattiana with impatience waited
Tattiana would attempt to fly,
Tattiana's beauty, pale with care,
Tattiana's letter I possess,
Tattiana's love was quite sincere,
Tattiana's trouble might have spied,
Tattiana, dim with tears her eyes,
Tattiana, Russian to the core,
Tattiana, saucy Olga thine?"--
Tattiana--thus the sex is born.--
Tell me at once what wilt thou have?
Tell me, of sentiments concealed
"Tell me, why doth your comrade stay?"
Tend not my heart to mitigate,
Tender and elevated, free?
Terpsichore alone among
Terrible tales she loved to hear.
Terror of guardians of the night;
Than cold Oneguine's oddities,
Than health, so with a trembling hand
Than one's own fascinating self.Here I remark all poets are
That a friend's arm in every case
That afterwards with evil smile
That all may hear his voice's tone.Thou fairy-land! Where formerly
That bilberry wine, I'm sore afraid,
That certain volumes she might read.Adieu she to the matron said
That chosen heroes consecrate,
That crass stupidity misleads,
That every morn at Verrey's cost
That first the Muse appeared to me.
That for that matter in my verse
That girl whom once on a time he
That girl--but he must dreaming be--
That glimmered through the radiant night
That grandmothers and grandsires may
That guests approach: and when above
That he was "ready any day."
That heart with inspiration sweet
That Heaven her character had blent
That hero, though his merit shone,
That I am rich, a prince's wife?--
That I forget not whom I sing.
That I to you reveal my mind?
That is, he could elucidate
That like a friendly voice its tone
That mediocrity alone
That mind which yearns for space is bound?
That my coy Muse might sing more sweet.
That my dishonour would ensure
That Nina's marble symmetry,
That our desires which noblest seemed,
That rascal Lovelace she abused;
That soon I reach my thirtieth year?And so my noon hath come! If so,
That the two friends with morning's light
That until Christmas comes again
That vanished are my youthful days,
That vicious set whom I don't blame--
That we by cant ourselves deceive,
That we her constantly betrayed
That year the autumn season late
That youthful heart--"But, now at least,
That, for the century designed,
That, tipsy once in actual fight,
The "in memoriam" pages sought,
The accents wild of other's woes,
The aged mother, bathed in tears,
The aged nurse in ample gown,
The aged woman in her woe:
The all-entrancing joys of love--
The altar flame was quenched in night.Tranquil he lay, and strange to view
The amatory science warm,
The ancient _barshtchina_ replaced
The appointed hour arrives, arrives!
The artful prisoner should seek
The artifice of villany--
The aspect of a landscape drear.
The avalanche of snow first bends,
The ball in all its splendour shone.I tried when I began this tale,,
The balls impelled, the blunt cue chalked;
The bard his answer waits at home,
The bard of Juan and the Giaour,
The bard's enthusiastic strain,
The bath on Saturdays attended,
The bays of age and helplessness.
The bear rolls on with many a grunt:
The bee forth from his cell of wax
The beldam saith: "The hearth, by it
The blessings of humanity.Or, it may be, the bard had passed
The blood boiled and the passions strove.
The blood gushed from the wound and steamed
The body they consigned to rest,
The boy was wild but full of grace.
The breath of Spring again renewed,
The bridegroom sage without delay
The bridge and alley to the lake,
The brilliant Nina Voronskoi,
The calm existence which I prize
The captain of a company.
The captives of the Salguir's shore.
The chaise long ordered please employ,
The channel of the river stilled
The chief of the Chaldean wise,
The child of sloth and liberty.
The china teapot too ye might
The choicest flowers of French cuisine,
The clue unto some mystery
The coach before a house stood still.
The coach is borne o'er ruts and holes,
The cold reply with gloomy mien
The cold sweat bursting from his brow,
The colonel sent it. Oh! delight!
The coming of life's Autumn drear.
The company deep silence guard.
The comrade of your youth should strike,
The connoisseur his glances throws
The contact of the foot I raised
The conversation tedious
The conversation was revived
The converse of our hermits twain,
The converse of the world polite,
The cool dark oaken grove to range,
The counsel good and full of reason,
The Country DamselCanto The Third"Whither away? Deuce take the bard!"--
The country hath its liberties
The crafty spouse caressed him, who
The crash of music, candles' glare
The credulous indeed are blest,
The crowd and merriment and light,
The crowd doth head and shoulders rise
The crowd unto the drawing-room speeds,
The crystals of her vestibule
The curs away to kennel chase,
The curse of commonplace delight.
The curtain now they slowly raise.
The cynosure of every eye.
The damsel under escort place."Can I inspect the mansion, please?"
"_The date, his fleeting years how long--
The days of love and of romance!
The days which to your youth belong?
The deuce take friends, my friends, amends
The deuce with my inside has played."
The die is cast! Thine is my life!
The disenchanted glass direct
The door flew open--Olga came,
The doors swing open: Lenski makes
The drama of my youth was played.
The dream left terror in its train.
The drive becomes monotonous--
The drum already doth arouse.
The dusty chronicles of earth
The early days of life we sought.
The early tinkling of the bells
The easier 'tis to gain her grace,
The epistle from the bard presents.
The epitaph on marble shows:
The Eternal Jew or the Corsair
The evanescent fashions fly
The excited hero in a trice
The eyes of a grave general.
The fair of the next generation,
The fair, nor parted with regret,
"The family are all quite well--
The family of children hie.
The family of Kharlikoff,
The fashionable rhymester's heart!
The fatal bullet penetrate,
The fatal hour had come at last--
The fatal secrets of the grave,
The fatal tubes Lepage contrived
The fated nutriment desired;
The father scarcely understands
The feeble moment would espy
The feet of graceful ladies fly,
The feet of my dear lady friends.
The fervid poet would recite,
The Fete
The fever of the blood to slake--
The fire extinguished in his breast,
The fire of the nocturnal lights;
The fires of passion and its smart--
The firmament in mellow light,
The first appearance of the snows
The first bright wreathing storm of snow
The first-fruits of my tale I read,
The fisher's fire afar illumes
The flimsy wares of Western marts,
The flowerbeds skirts, the brook doth meet,
The foaming Lenski would refuse,
The foes with downcast eyes abide.Foes! Is it long since friendship rent
The foes, as yet not taking aim,
The forests in mysterious gloom
The fountain brawls, sweetbriers bloom,
The fragrant tea in darkling stream,
The freshness of her heart impair,
The friend of liberty and laws
The friends are called and quickly placed.Right opposite Tattiana placed,
The frolics of maidens.They sang, whilst negligently seated,
The fruits of learning and combined
The fruits of science, evil, good,
The general who accompanies.
The German baker looks around
The giddy world at last shall see.
The gifted songster never swerved,
The gilding of life's vanities,
The girl in marriage they unite.
The girl on tiptoe forward bounds
The glass unwittingly inspect
The goblet still is bubbling bright--
The God of Love is after you!A coquette loves by calculation,
The goddess would a masquerade
The golden ember now enshrines,
The gossip of their ladies fair.Handsome and rich, the neighbourhood
The Great World
The guests make room; aside each takes
The hamlet, the poor villagers,
The happiest days of life employ?Love, flowers, the country, idleness
The heart of the inveterate flirt!
The heavens shone in deeper blue,
The height of fashion, fitting tight,
The hero is of my narration!
The hero we immortalize.
The hero's name too in advance,
The hoar-frost glitters: all rejoice
The horizon luminous doth grow,
The hostess doth interrogate:
The hour when--Fate so willed--we met
The house and garden I would see."
The household property contain:
The household troop of little boys,
The hussar Pykhtin was accused.
The idols of their adoration
The image of her seal impressed.
The imagination to enliven
The indignation of her heart!
The inmate is for ever dumb,
The inscription o'er the gates of Hell
The insensate fire of love still glowed
The jealous dame her lorgnette veers,
The journey in a sledge doth please,
The kennel or a kindred line,
The ladies' dresses airy, light,
The ladies' laughter to provoke.
The ladies, their fantastic dress,
The lady in the crimson cap
The lady's glance upon him fell--
The lamps illuminating shine;
The lancer, to his calling bound,
The landscape which the moonbeams fret,
The language of her girlish pleading
The languid eye of love-sick maids,
The languid mind could smile at nought,
The Larinas unwisely went,
The Larinas were since sunrise
The Larinas would celebrate,
The last poor obol I was worth--
The laws of generations past,
"The left? Why, what on earth is there?"--
The letter is the thing, you see,--
The letter which Tattiana wrote.
The lily's stem to eat away,
The little solitary nook
The lively trash of stories long
The lonely mansion-house to screen
"The Lord be with thee, O my daughter!"--
The Lord deliver her and save!
The love, hate, sorrow, joy, we feel.
The Lovelaces are out of date,
The maid whose note he still possessed
The maiden at her casement sits
The maiden's weary eye which yearned,
The maids beside Tattiana keep--
The malady of hopeless love
The mallet loud the ramrod strikes,
The man and liked his company,
The manly toga scarce assumed,
The manners of the highest class
The master always used to sit."Departed Lenski here to dine
The matchmaker a fortnight sped,
The matter by his conscience tried,
The matter did not agitate,
The Medal Otchakoff conferred!
The medium is required of gold.
The memory of the bard was driven
The memory of the bard, a dream,
The men salute with lower bows
The military band will play.
The misanthrope of gloomy brow,
The miserable bard to meet,
The misty evenings ere Twelfth Night.
The moderns of the ancients rave--
The moment for revenge, meanwhile,
The monsters of the British Muse
The moon in the blue atmosphere.
The moon, the lamp of heaven above,
The moon, the stars, and shining night--
The most industrious man alive
The motley moving mass and bright,
The murmuring brook, the woodland shade,
The Muse abandoned, ta'en a wife,
The Muse capricious let us coax,
The Muse revealed her first delight,
The mystic lines to tear away
The mystic monogram, O. E.
The native Russian tongue impeach?
The natural fickleness of passion,
The needle nor, o'er framework bent,
The neighbourhood fresh sport derived.
The neighbours come, in sledge approach,
The Neva's Cleopatra, and
The new moon's crescent slim she spied,
The nightingale there all night long,
The nightingale trills forth her tune;
The nights of golden Italy
The Okhtenka with pitcher speeds,
The old Derjavine noticed me,
The old man who has had his freaks,
The olden time shall be my theme.Old people's simple conversations
The opportunity is flown.
The pains of night have wholly fled,
The pall of night was growing thin,
The Paris of those country parts
The parquet cracked beneath the heel,
The passionate speeches I'll repeat,
The path of hope and tender fear--
The path which leads to glory's goal.
The peace which on his forehead beamed,
The peasant blessed his happy fate.
_The peasants there are rich as kings,
The perfidies I recollect
The pervert world with icy chill
The pile of books, with carpet spread
The pine-torch, by her crackles bright.Already crisp hoar frosts impose
The poet fell; already men
The poet from Tamboff secured,
The poet's fervid conversation
The poet's hour hath sounded--See!
The poet's madness? for 'tis hard
The poet, modest though so grand,
The PoetCanto The SecondThe village wherein yawned Eugene
The pompous, swaggering cuckold too,
The poor girl fell into a faint,
"The post hath kept him, it is like."
The powder in the pan is laid,
The prejudices all men have,
The prince's eye Oneguine seeks:
The princess from the sofa cried
The Princess N. will be at home
The proud ones are not worth the fire
The purest of the dreams we dreamed,
The reaping girls approach and ply
The remnant destiny concedes,
The rigour of cold pride and all
The riot of the world and glare
The river through the linden wood.
The river's bank. Tattiana lone
The room my former master used.
The Russian language I deem vile
The Russian N with nasal sound
The Russian winter did adore
The ruts of his own fatherland.Yet on a frosty winter day
The sad moon only could remark.
The same unmoved oblivion
The same warm vision constantly;
The secrets of maidens.
The secrets of the marriage state
The seemly crowd, partaking nought
The serpent to unlawful trees
The servants used to congregate
The sharp flint, screwed securely on,
The sharp incisions of his nail,
The shepherd plaits his shoe of bark,
The shining orbs of night appear;
The shining river clothed in ice;
The shopman and the pedlar rise
The shutters open; to the skies
The silent fields no peasant nears,
The simple epitaph--a tear
The sleep-compelling Grandison,
The sneers of critics superfine;
The snow upon the streets doth melt--
The snows from off the hills around
The solstice of our earthly years,
The sorrows of a single state.
The speech of man and tramp of horse.
The starry beacons fade away,
The steed benumbed still pawing stands
The steward sent a note to tell
The stomach doth admonish us.
The storm was hushed. The blossom fair
The story of his young love's dream,
The story of thy life and fate.
The strange apartment her oppressed:
The style in which my hero dressed;
The style of wise antiquity.
The sudden rattling of a car.
The sum of my existence gone
The sun had mounted high his steep,
The swain of Julia Wolmar,
The table with its lamp unlit,
The tale of these romantic men;
The third at night. Tattiana wakes
The thirst for fame and man's applause,
The thirst of knowledge and of fame,
The thunderbolt on you descend!
The tightened leathern rein she draws,
The time between the wolf and dogs--
The time for mystic strolls which late
The time when Melancholy's claw
The tiny sun shone less on high
The tiresome man, her value knowing,
The torment born of crime unseen,
The torrent of opinion,
The traveller, bird of passage he,
The trees in silvery array,
The triumph of a conquest new.
The troop of apparitions fled,
The twenty-sixth year of his age,
The twilight pale which softens all,
The two friends' compliments she hears
The two old ladies then embraced
The unaffected traits she now
The unbidden guests he roughly chides--
The uncontaminated kiss
The untutored spirit's pangs calmed down
The valleys dried and gaily flowered;
The venerable dame opined
The verst posts catch the vacant eye
The very morning of our days.He who hath lived and living, thinks,
The vestibule finds empty quite--
The vile seducer shall not dare
The voice of jealousy is drowned.In my young days of wild delight
The voice of lovers, foes and friends,
The votary of vain delight
The weary way still incomplete,
The wedding-day had been arranged,
The whirlwind of the waltz sweeps by,
The wind rose instantly, blew out
The windows whitened, shutters close--
The wit of others to acquire.
The witching light of sympathy;
The wolf upon the highways bold
The wondrous host of heavenly spheres
The woods, still naked to the view,
The words _bear, bridge, fir, darkness, bog,
The words and looks of charmers sweet
The workpeople she superintended,
The works of Mr. Richardson.She was thus fond of Richardson
The world enough. Congratulate
The world is ever altering!
The young proprietor we find;
The young Simeonova too there
"The younger, you're in love with her!"
The youthful lover once again
The youthful poet's fond confession.
Thee but a little space bewept,
Thee only would I choose, in truth,
Thee only, pledge of all things bright,
Their branches by the snow bowed down.
Their claims and explanations shout.
Their coming which no man expects,
Their giddy sports she ne'er enjoyed.She loved upon the balcony
Their glory with their heels of red
Their harmless conversation blends
Their heroes used to represent
Their idols they were wont to invest
Their insolence and waistcoats white
Their Jealousy and separation
Their looks alone produce the spleen.
Their memory lingers still and seems
Their natural attractions lend
Their noisy laugh her soul annoyed,
Their offspring's innocent flirtations
Their own productions, some insist
Their privileged allurements fire
Their slander e'en was weariness;
Their voices nought to her impart
"Then amongst strangers I was left--
Then be it so! My destiny
Then became busy with the house,
"Then come with me." The prince proceeds,
Then dressed himself...
Then get mad drunk or wroth; the day
Then glittering in the sun descends.
Then handed her the song with grace.Congratulations, toasts resound,
Then he'd malign them secretly
Then in the silent cabinet
Then it may be, O flattering tale,
Then my companions young with pleasure
Then seeks ancestral sepulchres,
"Then send your grandson quietly
Then suddenly discharge a joke
Then the old dames in chorus sing,
Then they came easily enow,
Then they're so innocent of vice,
Then to reward such confidence
Then to some gallant in your turn
Then touching Olga they depart
Then weeping she sank back distressed
Then would we muse as in a trance,
Then ye were barely generous,
Then, eyeing Olga, whispers low:
Then, her distraction to allay,
Then, I say truly, none but thee
"Then, in the country, is't not true?
Then, the far capital forgot,
Then, then--well, in some solitude
There an imperious skeleton;
There came a sudden flash of light,
There Didelot became glorious,
There dwells five versts from Krasnogory,
There friends of pure delight had been
There is a spot the village near
There is no fishmarket retort
There is no path; the storm hath strewn
There is no stupid calumny
There is no wreath upon the bough:
There jars of cider block the way,
There long time sad at heart he stayed:
There our Katenine did revive
There the confusion, pressure, heat,
There the tired ploughman loves to lie,
There was no angling for success.
There! take it quickly, if ye must).
There'll be a fight. I do not lie.
There, aping Gulnare's bard, he spanned
There, in that knot of company,
There, there, beneath the side-scene's shade
Thereon the passing traveller read:
These are your relatives, believe:
These evenings as in days of old
These friends cold-bloodedly draw near
These take their seats; the coach of state
These to the coach of state are bound,
They are all natural and low,
They blossom, ripen and they fall
They crack a feeble joke and smile--
They deem her somewhat finical,
They disappeared by stealth and guile,
They first of all my brow did wreathe
They growl a bit--they scandalise--
They hand in hand to table go.
They have invited you this week.""Me?"--"Yes! It is Tattiana's fete
They laugh, they argue, and they bawl,
They long ago had held debate.
They long at home have her expected--
They made him feel inclined to doze;
They may forget that we exist.
They met. Earth, water, prose and verse,
They sat, but conversation's flow
They sent their compliments--but oh!
They shout and no one lists at all.
They shovel silver with a spade,
They stir the heart as heretofore.
They talked and laughed. The guests arrived.
They were the wonderful traditions
They will receive us with delight."
They wish that ladies should, I hear,
They would not solemnly debate
Thine eye subdued me with strange glance,
Thine honour is my countersign!Tattiana moans and now she sighs
Thinking to float upon the stream,
Thinking: 'tis foolish to disturb
This anchorite amid his waste
(This by command; for it was found,
This evanescent boyish bliss.
This gentle daring who could guess?
This glitter, riot, emptiness,
This great discovery relief
This he believed: a kindred spirit
This is my master's sitting-room.
This life in masquerade concealed,
This lot in life with stern decree?"Ideas and time ne'er backward move;
This monument of thought profound
This nonsense, that dishonest seems,
This separated us as well--
This was his social character.
This wicked, that absurd he deems,
This world. I do not praise desire,
This, this were true felicity!
Thither hussars on leave will stray
Thither in future to proceed
Those feet? Alas! on what far strand
Those hellish phantoms. Peals arise
Those whom we ought to love, caress,
Thou also, my ideal true,
Thou beauteous sky above, farewell!
Thou didst to me in dreams appear,
Thou hast resigned thy destiny
Thou too farewell, my liberty!
Thou'lt quaff love's sweet envenomed stream,
Thou'lt suffer, dearest, but before,
Though around honoured Priam's throne
Though Baratynski verses penned,
Though beauty he no more adored,
Though by an error and unsought--
(Though certainly mankind he knew
Though correspondence as a rule
Though dazzling its effulgence white,
Though deep he sinks into the drift;
Though for his Helen Menelaus
Though he advanced unceasingly.
Though he surveyed her at his ease,
Though hitherto a lady ne'er
Though I confess I hardly dare
Though I'll return to him right early,
Though late, have a beginning made.
Though now my love might be intense,
Though of romance therein I fail
Though scarcely following what was said,
Though some men, evilly disposed,
Though superannuated rather;
Though the foul vision promise made
Though to the Academy I come
Though we will not acknowledge it.
Though we, of Hymen foes, meanwhile,
Though without palaces and streets,
Though, God be praised! he ne'er designed
Three balls a year he gave ye duly,
Three flasks of wine he might exhaust.
Three mortal hours per diem he
Three pairs of handsome female feet;
Three tears they dropt with humble mein
Thrice happy who their agonies
Through aspens, limes and birches bare,
Through clouds of dust at postal pace,
Through dense aristocratic rows
Through park and meadow, wood and brake,
Thus a guest with composure will
Thus age approached, the common doom,
Thus carelessly I once portrayed
Thus haughty, careless in her tone?He quits the fashionable throng
Thus having braved Apollo's rage
Thus her perversity hath shown.
Thus in the earth the seed expands
Thus mused a madcap young, who drove
Thus Nature doth our souls alloy,
Thus oft--this I myself confess--
Thus our light race grows up and lives,
Thus shakes the hare when suddenly
Thus shines the wretched butterfly,
Thus the time passes and meanwhile
Thus thou, Yazykoff, dost arise
Thus to assassinate the eve?"--
Thus trees in spring their leaves renew
Thus we began our little tale--
Thus, praised be God! a reputation
Thy cheek is as a poppy red!""Ah! nurse, a favour do for me!"--
Thy dove, thy darling little pet
Thy heroes, sanguinary wights,
Thy meditative incantation--
Thy Venus and thy Jupiter,
Till absently Vladimir took
Till amid trees a hovel showed,
Till carriage lamps, a double row,
Till January fell no snow--
Till morn--life uniform but gay,
Till out of breath upon a seatShe sank.--
Till proper rings could be procured.
Till the fire in her cheek decreased;
Till the mazurka's close he stays,
Time to denote by dinner, tea,
Time was the flattering voice of fame,
Time was when cold seduction strove
Time was, a valiant general might
Time was, his raillery was gay,
Time was, the breath of early dawn
Time was, the poet's tender quill
Time was, two maidens from their home
Time will the ravages efface--
Time without me will lessons give,
Time, I invoke thee! favouring gales
Time-honoured Kremlin's keys present.
Tired by the ball's incessant noise,
Tiresome unto her hath become
'Tis _yes! no!_ never _madam! sir!_"
'Tis a Madonna of Vandyk,
'Tis a scene of romance, I vow!"
'Tis dark. He seats him in a sleigh,
'Tis day, the family downstairs,
'Tis done. To supper they proceed.
'Tis dreadful--ye agree, I hope--
'Tis evidently Heaven's will
'Tis fearful to anticipate
'Tis finished. Horrible to read!
'Tis foreign to my cast of thought;
"'Tis habit, Lenski."--"Is your ill
'Tis Heaven's will and I am thine.
'Tis here he slept, his coffee took,
'Tis hopeless! Homeward doth he flee
'Tis in your power now, if desired,
'Tis noisome to her there: in thought
'Tis not so now. Like gentle dames
'Tis now the hillock now the rill
'Tis now the season! Idlers all,
'Tis said you are a misanthrope,
'Tis silent all! Alone the cries
'Tis silent all. Tattiana sleeps.
'Tis silent--on her shines the moon--
'Tis something of this sort I deem.
'Tis the warm time of labour, flowers;
'Tis there that arrant fops display
'Tis time for supper, now for bed,
'Tis time she to the altar went!
"'Tis time to get up! Seven doth strike.
'Tis time to marry her, 'tis true,
'Tis time to quit this weary shore
"'Tis time, my child, arise, I pray!
Titles and ages intermixed.
To a surrender gave consent,
To accompany him and to escort
To agitate me in my dreams.When, where, and in what desert land,
To all good neighbours' sport conduced.
To all she answers cruelly--
To an assembly--she appeared
To anticipate the break of day,
To arid selfishness resigned,
To arm the tongue and e'en the eye,
To array himself in evening dress.
To ask forgiveness seemed to yearn;
To ask her name the trouble took.
To banish far unworthy themes
To be a charming mystery:
To be in conversation clear
To bear love's parching agonies--
To bid the gentlefolk good-bye.
To bring behind: the triple steeds
To burn, yet reason keep awake
To captivate her how devoted!
To cheat the inexperienced fair,
To clank the spur, delight the fair--
To classicism I've homage paid,
To cock the pistol; barrel bend
To cool the cutlets' seething grease,
To cope with Ay no more I dare,
To crush me with a just disdain.
To dire contentment shall give birth
To dominate her worthy lord,
To dream upon the sunny strand
To dreams I long have closed mine eyes,
To Dunia then they whisper: Mind!
To ease the anguish of my breast.
To end with him her path below.To Love all ages lowly bend,
To Eve the universal mother,
To fawn upon and love express;
To find in gossip such delight,
To flight before her radiant look,
To follow you in every place,
To foreign lands he would allude,
To freeze his finger hath begun,
To friendship making no pretence,
To God eternal hymns of praise.
To guess how you the eve pull through."--
To happiness contributing.
To help her to the other shore
To her an elegy composed.
To his Penates now returned,
To idle musing was a prey;
To jest as he had done last eve,
To kiss the feet which I admired!
To labour in his sledge forgot,
To lawless love I should prefer--
To lay two covers secretly.
To light had brought them from their dust,
To listen to the rippling rill.
To listen to the words you speak,
To loiter there in idleness
To look on life as on a show,
To Lucifer the cock must breathe
To make wise men the idiot play
To male acquaintances he bows,
To many a noisy feast and fight,
To mark with a contemptuous smile.
To me he would his Olga give,
To mention the foregoing eve,
To move in fashionable life,
To mutter her concealed desire
To my old nurse alone peruse,
To Olga Petoushkova darts:
To our Tattiana conquering,
To part in amity with thee!
To pass the night at home hath gone.
To pass with reasonable men
To peer into the future tries.
To purest love he tuned his note
To raise a clamour and a din:
To raise his pistol to his eye,
To romp and play she ne'er would go:
To Russ indigenous are not;
To russify the foreign phrase
To say farewell, and fussed and fumed
To secrets of virgins,
To see aught--never mind meanwhile)
To see his Olga ere the fray--
To see you by our fireside stand,
To seek him out with bended head.
To shallow sentiment a slave!
To sigh and meditate alone:
To sketch myself that I have tried
To sketch ye in Albano's style.
To slay himself with blade or ball,
To standards in which we believe?
To stay the maid against her will.
To strike imagination serve.
To such--delightful to repel.
To swagger as the art of love,
To swathe her shoulders in the furs,
To take a hand at whist oft come:
To take this letter to O-- Well!
To Tania Lenski; Kharlikova,
To the abandoned dwelling-place.
To the fair object of his dream,
To the impressions of our youth,
To the pianoforte he moves
To the sarcastic observation,
To the theatre he repairs
To the young girl he said adieu,
To the youth Eugene hurried now--
To this arrangement can be seen,
To thy decree my will I bend.
To treat the matter as a jest,
To two young oaks the coachman leads.
To understand by slow degrees
To vary for a few brief days.For two whole days it seemed a change
To visit Moscow in the season.
To visit, lovely maid, return,
To wander through the meadows still,
To watch with lovers' ecstasies,
To what malicious merriment,
To whisper comfort, love and hope?
To whom amongst the jealous throng
To whom are our misfortunes grief
"To whom is it to go, my sweet?
To whom we used to consecrate
To whom ye for unnumbered crimes
To whom your hearts were consecrate,--
To witticisms and taunts half-vicious
To write his forefathers to warn
To write in cantos twenty-five.I've thought well o'er the general plan,
To write of any other elf
To youthful Olga's beauty bright,
"To--?"--"Larina."--"Tattiana?"--"So.
To-day it is my turn to teach.
To-day, my friends, at any rate,
To-morrow before break of day,
To-morrow just like yesterday.
To-morrow Tania we will show,
Tobacco smoke the flue ascends,
Together moments one or two
Together they returned, nor word
Together we have wandered o'er
Told me to ask you. Ere that date
Tome of "Malvina," and but three
Too much I'm given to intersperse,
Took aim--but as immediately
Torquato Tasso's strains I deem.
Tortured by pangs of wild regret,
Tranquil repose. Eugene alone
Tranquilly goes to sleep at home,
Transfixed Oneguine mine doth stay.Is this the same Tattiana, say,
Transparent o'er the Neva beamed
Transported to our Russian clime.
Trembles at artificial shame.The shining pistols are uncased,
Trembles upon my lips from spite,--
Trembling he seeks the young princess--
Triquet arose, and for the bard
Triumphant by anticipation,
Triumphant with the answer come.
Troy's sages should in concert own
True friend, landlord benevolent,
Turned and replied as it behoved,
Turned to her and discordantly
'Twas built, the venerable pile,
'Twas he whom, amid nightly shades,
'Twas not the first time, I can tell
'Twas plain--an oaken floor ye scan,
"'Twas possible then, happiness--
'Twas then he loved the tangled grove
'Twas then in valleys lone, remote,
'Twas these he read and these alone
Twelfth Night approaches. Merry eves!
Twice in the year to fast were bound,
Two cupboards, table, soft divan,
Two dressed in uniform appear--
Two hearts perchance were desolate
Two hearts, a torch, of flowers a wreath,
Two minutes they in silence spent,
Two pines have joined their tangled roots,
Two poles together glued by ice,
Two verses he could recollect
'Twould serve ye in an epigram--
Undeviating and insane
Undoubtedly, disdain alone
Undressed herself and went to bed
Unfavourable unto her.
Unhappily too salt by far;
Unknown as yet the aching heart,
Unknown to all he doth appear,
Unknown to all, without a tie,
Unless forbidden fruit we eat,
Unseen in thick and tangled grass
Unseen thou wast already dear.
Until her heart less high should bound--
Until her powers of running fail.She sank upon the snow. But Bruin
Until the sleepless Breguet chime
Unto a carping world must show--
Unto a ruthless tyrant dread.
Unto Anicia for the keys
Unto her husband, went away--
Unto his neighbour, man of thrift,
Unto his own Tattiana he,
Unto our neighbour. Mind you tell--
Unto the fields she makes her way,
Unto the gates the servants fly
Unto the hero of this lay
Unto the sounding sea to list,
Unto the windmill he must ride
Unto their solitude one day,
Up to the attic, and all need
Upon a bunch of lovage green;
Upon a soul inert and cloyed?--
Upon her brow sits wrath alone--And it may be a secret dread
Upon her cheek by adulation
Upon her elbow she reclines,
Upon her tongue which fever bakes.
Upon his couch insensibly;
Upon its damp opacity,
Upon my lake I love to float,
Upon my visions such intrude.Fresh aspirations I have known,
Upon the ball-room's glassy floor
Upon the Don's broad pastures bred
Upon the dreary northern snows,
Upon the earth a mist did lie
Upon the highway of the sea
Upon the meadows showering,
Upon the opening page ye find:
Upon the stage his weary glance.
Upon the tumbled sofa placed,
Upon the windows tracery,
Upon those margins she perceived
Upon those pages she descries
Upon your daughters keep an eye,
Upward in a thin stream inclines.
Urging your droshkies swift as air
Us from the world wherein we live.Meantime, drink deeply of the flow
Us, and like Trojan warriors slay us;
Use subterfuge, and thus his breast
Vanished his youthful years at last,
Variety of speech and vests,
Verses and tears et cetera.
Vexation? Vanity? or strove
Vice had due punishment awarded,
Vice in romance is glorified
Viewed them with not a little scorn,
Villages in the distance show
Virgins miraculous I see,
Virtue was with a bride rewarded.But now our minds are mystified
Visions, now sad, now grateful, long
Vladimir closes up his book,
"_Vladimir Lenski lies beneath,
Vladimir Lenski visited
Vladimir Lenski was his name,
Vladimir something curtly said
Vladimir's property, a man
Vociferously paid her court,
Voices and hands applaud, and she
Von Wisine, friend of liberty,
Vows matrimonial to break,
Wafted upon poetic wing,
Waiting his coming--his alone!
Walking? The landscape tires the eye
Wallow, my friends, in company!
"Warm yourself here a little space!"
Warmth I imagined in your glance,
Was a delightful little spot,
Was born beside the Neva, where
Was certainly no Grandison.
Was certainly not erudite
Was drawn, ideal of my lay--
Was famous for thick-headedness.Lenski that eve in thought immersed,
Was he in health and void of care?--Even so! His passions soon abated,
Was it not so?--for thee I gave,
Was it not thou who thus didst stoop
Was it not thou, O vision bright,
Was not surprised thereby at all.
Was nothing but the British spleen
Was ready for self-sacrifice,
Was sleeping then a sleep like death;
Was that which we are wont to call
Was the first question Olga made,
Was the meek love a maiden feels.
Was the old and forgotten coach;
Was the sad poet filled with gloom,
Was uttered, and the cabin shook--
Was with himself dissatisfied.In fact, the subject analysed,
Was withered ere the morning light--
Was wont with me at cards to play.
Was worthy of that old baboon,
Was younger than myself, my light,
We all of us of education
We are the first who such a name
We called to mind our youthful days--
We glide along a floor of wax.
We hear with interest intense
We must admit but little taste
"We never loved in days of old,
We Russians, friends from distant parts
We visit about Christmas Day,
Wearied of leisure in the end,
Weeping they loosed my tresses long
Well known unto Oneguine mine.
Well nigh her heart in twain was cleft.In cruel solitude each day
Well! just as she was yesterday."Why did you leave last night so soon?"
Well! Larina appears to us
"Well!"--"I the elder should prefer,
Were I like you a bard by trade--
Were stripped with melancholy sound,
Were to analysis subjected.
Were you in love when you were young?"--"Alack! Tattiana," she replied,
Werther, rebellious martyr bold,
What a storm of emotions keen
What acrimonious scorn I trace
What agitation languidly
"What ails thee, dear?"--"I feel depressed.
"What ails thee?"--"Nothing."--He is fled.At home arriving he addressed
What are they? Gladly would I yield
What bitter tears with thee I shed!
What boots it with the age to strive?
"What can be done? She is no child!"
"What can be drearier than the house,
What do I ask? What cause assigned
What doth he act? Is it Melmoth,
What doth she see? Around the board
What everybody long has known;
What hath he dreamed? What hath occurred?
What I by relatives conceive?
What is his latest character?
What is thy cleverness to me?
"What is your name?" The boor looked dazed,
What jokes and guesses now abound,
What languor would his silence show,
What more's required? The world replies,
What never was remarked or heard
What once I knew is clean forgot--
What pleasures Hymen would prepare
What sad emotions o'er me steal
What say you? to the family--
What they in conversation said?--
What visions then her fancy thronged--
What will the coming dawn reveal?
"What! Grandison?"--"Yes, certainly!"
What! really going? 'Tis too bad!
What, invitations? The same day
When all around the entrance pressed,
When angry beat her maids, I grieve,
When captured in a schoolboy's cap;
When deaf and silent he doth lie
When Eugene like a ghost did rise
When evening o'er the landscape looms,
When first upon my cheek I feel
When Friendship smiled or Love caressed.
When harsh demeanour hath consigned
When he in ardent verse portrays
When hope's delightful flower but bloomed
When I yon semicircle bright
When in as instant she is lost,--
When in her walks abroad she met
When in simplicity ye wrote
When in that company she saw
When in the grand saloon was heard
When in the study's calm retreat,
When motionless your gaze beneath
When o'er a glass with friends we prate
When on the pallid eastern sky
When Passion's fire no longer glows
When people with long countenance
When poets lachrymose recite
When separation's hour drew nigh,
When shall I wing my passage free
When tea was brought. 'Tis my delight
When that time comes, a poem I'll strive
When the hour came to bid good-bye--
When the mazurka used to peal,
When the obedient doll in sport
When the same life before him lies
When the sonorous Breguet tells
When thoughtless youth whom nothing grieves,
When to enlarge we shall succeed,
When will my hour of freedom come!
When will the devil take his own!"
When youth's rebellious hour drew near
When, sitting by his fire alone
Whene'er a brilliant courtly dame
Whene'er across the plain at speed
Whene'er he had an aching head;
Where all upon the surface lies,--
Where art thou? Come! pretensions mine
Where better?
Where dwelt the Muses' worshipper,
Where each young critic ready stands,
Where every day before his eyes
Where fashionable circles meet
Where God alone knows whom she met.
Where harsh frivolity proclaims
Where I can no more recollect?--
Where in the country Eugene yet,
Where is he who doth not deceive?
Where is the outlaw, banned by men,
Where long time he in solitude
        Where man is not.
Where many another hand had signed
Where melancholy rocks arise
Where my days in the wilderness
Where Nereids murmur evermore,
Where plentifully feelings flow
Where shining runs the tiny brook,
Where sometime Goethe, Schiller sung,
Where the first time I saw your face,--
Where the first time she met with _him_.Thus widely meditation erred,
Where thine equal shall we find?
Where turmoil cannot penetrate,
Where youth ?
Where, where, remorse, compassion, pain?
Where, where, the trace of tears? None, none!
Where--"--"What! another eclogue spin?
Wherefore am I your quarry held?--
Wherefore? She found a secret joy
Wherein a space Oneguine spent.
Wherein I buried left my heart.
Wherein I castigation get;
Wherein I felt love's fatal dart,
Wherein love innocently pines.
Wherein my poor old nurse doth lie
Wherein the child of fashion strict
Wherein the heart its vows expressed,
Wherein the miserable wife
Wherein we lately left the twain.
Whereto in language courteous
Which 'neath her pillow lay till morn.
Which afterwards the muse revived.
Which all her darling friends have scrawled
Which Autumn late to earth consigned,
Which crushing dignity must brook!
Which falls in starry flakes below.How in the country pass this time?
Which from the devil's bookcase start,
Which glowed with virginal desire.When but a boy he Olga loved
Which in a hilly neighbourhood
Which in the elevated sphere
Which in the winter were a joy:
Which in your spirit dominates,
Which is he? or an imitation,
Which lessons unto us repeat,
Which might for many ages last.Surely ye all have overhauled
Which never have existed, e'en
Which o'er the waters boldly leap,
Which of approaching labour tells
Which Ovid once immortalized,
Which rankled in Tattiana's breast,
Which rushed in eager dense array
Which shines with iridescent hues.
Which to the neighbouring alley leads,
Which we experienced long ago.Alas! he loved as in our times
Which your true friend with a sweet smile
Whilst all creation seemed to dream
Whilst cheerily the embers shone,
Whilst Eugene condescending quite,
Whilst from her countenance ne'er stirred
Whilst he "belle Nina" had the face
Whilst homeward by the nearest route
Whilst Morpheus his approach delays,
Whilst nearer, sunk in deeper shade,
Whilst on the floor Monsieur Triquet
Whilst Petersburg from slumber deep
Whilst struggling for the heritage.Soon Olga's accents shrill resound
Whilst the fond parents, friends thro' life,
Whilst the tired serving-men without
Whiskers and bloody tongues and horns,
White Moscow raises her old spires,
Whither along them doth he pelt?Oneguine whither gallops? Ye
Whither and wherefore do I speed
Whither at headlong speed doth go
Whither departed is the host?
Whither shall he go first? He'll see,
Whither shall my rapscallion flit?
Whither that evening he will go.
Whither two neighbouring dames have walked
Who arrived lately from Tamboff,
Who art thou? Guardian angel sent
Who by a haughty word or glance
Who can help loving mother Moscow?
Who cannot conjure former joys?
Who dreams expound and prophecies.Brought by a pedlar vagabond
Who dressing-gown and slippers gives
Who early died a gallant death_,"
Who every gesture, every phrase
Who floats contentedly through life,
Who following Petrarch move along
Who for the greenwood quits his tower,
Who from two years to thirty tell;
Who glory, wealth and dignities
Who had for four long years survived
Who in the agony of grief
Who in the orchards gathered fruit,
_Who in thy love finds more delight
Who knows? with love's consuming flame
Who labours hard to humour us?
Who may he be? Is it Eugene?
Who now could fail to recognize
Who reads his visionary theme
Who secretly denounced the gift,
Who selfishly unmoved remain
Who the romance do not complete,
Who this soft nonsense could impart,
Who thrives this moment as I write,
Who to surrender did not blench
Who to the youthful hostess bowed,
Who tyrannizes us with ease,
Who welcome guests with zeal extreme,
"Who will be there?"--"The family.
Who with a scuffle and a shout
Who with the Spanish envoy speaks?"--
Who without more prevarication
Who words and actions will adjust
"Who would have thought it? As of yore!
Who would the maiden innocent
Who, heard the music of my lay,
"Who? Is it that stout general, pray?"--Let us congratulations pay
Wholly beside herself with fear,
Whom autocratic fate's decrees
Whom doth thy plaintive Muse adore?
Whom hath thy strain immortalized?
Whom jealous transport cannot move,
Whom latterly one often meets
Whom pale Diana's ray illumes--
Whom thirty centuries adore.I will with thy divinity
Whom vice, if named, doth agitate
Whom you in slumber may have seen."But she, her sister never heeding,
Whom, as the custom is of men,
Whose author nature understood
Whose brain no fond illusions daze,
Whose countless golden crosses glow
Whose glance reflecting inspiration
Whose hands indulgently caress
Whose heart experience icy made
Whose hearts responsive have remained
Whose memories make the heart beat quick
Whose memory doth not refuse
Whose qualities appeared to afford
Whose tones Apollo's sons inspire,
Why did you visit our poor place?
"Why, as God ordered! My Ivan
Will be absorbed by Lethe's stream;
Will be ascribed by treacherous Fame
Will happiness replace. My God!
Will he pursue?--But no one came.
Will not five centuries exceed
Will not, preserved by kindly Fate,
Will pass; the same to-morrow try--
Will sound an insult in your ear.
Will teach grammatical conceits,
Will to the old times faithful be.Speech careless, incorrect, but soft,
Will you?"--"Agreed."--"I thank you, friend,"
Winter resigned her empire white,
Winter! The peasant blithely goes
Winter's approach she doth not hail
With "vale" finish off a note;
With affectation,--nothing more.
With all dissatisfaction shows.
With all their progeny were there,
With an imagination wild,
With ardent sighs and flattery
With bated breath, around she bends
With better half as cumbersome;
With bitter tears my mother prayed,
With blessings on the ditches and
With blood instead of ink she scrawled,
With blunted pencil-point adorns.
With boiling torrent dark and gray;
With book in hand reclined in bed,
With cherries, red currants,
With childlike lisp will lie to please.
With clouded brow stands silently?
With dance and with song.
With deeper woe than others' grief.
With effort she restrains. Well nigh
With epigrams impertinent,
With Eugene pranks of former years
With eye precise and without fail.
With fir-trees standing motionless
With flame more ardent passion burns,
With folded arms and eyes bent low,
With footsteps tremulous with awe
With gay design and silken stitch.
With great delight.--O God on high!
With her they did associate,
With him were friends eternally:
With his exasperated sense,
With his ferocious mate appears.
With his own pawn alas! his rook!Homeward returning, he at home
With hisses Cleopatra scares,
With hope and then perplexity,
With hopeless passion: from her bed
With humble prose I'll fill my page
With hurried hand smooths down his hair.
With inexact pronunciation
With intellect and strong volition
With intellect, a taste refined,
With iridescent wing doth flap
With it may be a couple more;
With its exhilarating flow,
With jealous fear, anxiety.
With jealous fire resuscitate,
With jest and gossip gaily blent.
With late repentance gnaws and stings.
With laughter smothered weariness:
With lengthened howl and accent loud,
With little knowledge and that wrong
With loud explosion, the bright wine
With love which happiness extends;
With lovers' rubbish filled, was neat
With many a snare their pathway line!
With many a vacancy, 'tis said."--
With Martin Zadeka. In woe
With me Caucasian rocks beside!
With measured step and even gait
With mute appeal to ask they seem--
With Olga; nor of this appeared
With one foot resting on its tip
With one paw strokes her face and purrs,
With our Oneguine doth aspire
With Ozeroff was wont to share
With pallid light, but Eugene lay
With pungent or obtuse retort,
With purple hand Aurora leads,
With quite a lachrymose expression
With rapturous longing he awaits,
With raspberries, cherries.
With roses, caps and looks malign;
With sad refrain misfortune near.
With satisfaction marvellous,
With scandal's trivial ornament.
With serious air then went away
With shame I shudder and with dread--
With so much warmth and intellect?
With spiritual tenderness;
With such a perversity proclaim.
With sudden flush her cheeks suffuse,
With taffety instead of crape.Having abjured the haunts of men,
With tears which secret sufferers love--
With tears, confused emotions, bliss,--With unanimity complete,
With tenderness hath recognized
With the "Well-Wisher" in her hand!
With the epistle of my fair;
With thee I conversed when I bore
With this immoderate request
With this unpleasant _tete-a-tete_,
With thoughts of a far distant land,
With tranquil air Oneguine leads
With tumult or contentment still
With us 'tis quite a novelty
With us is easily attained.
With what avidity and zest
With which blind Fortune oft betrays
With words of foreign origin
With worldly honours, it may be,
Within her; she is sick at heart;
Within his memory there lay,
Within his mind Tattiana bore,
Within his sledge the stiffened corse,
Within its wave the sounding pail,
Within my memory I bore
Within resounded shriek and shout:
Within that secret court discussed,
Without a chance to slip away.
Without amaze or wrath displayed:
Without constraint in conversation
Without disguise ourselves explain.
Without disgust we look upon?Happy he who in youth was young,
Without enthusiasm he met
Without grammatical mistakes.
Without participation hears,
Without profession, business, wife,
Without the faintest trace to leave
Without the ken of parents both,
Without the least constraint he bowed.
Without them Eugene is complete;
Would agitate a mystic wreath
Would at the proper time appear.How well he played the greenhorn's part
Would haste in agitation dire
Would loiter by the looking-glass,
Would lose his slippers or gazette.Time flies! a genial air abroad,
Would once in powdered wig appear;
Would she in silence long remain.Contemplativeness, her delight,
Would she the canvas tight enrich
Would soothe the doubtings of his soul,
Would whisper: shall I so long live?"--
Would you to me this Phyllis show,
Wrapped in their sheepskins soundly sleep.
Wrapt in oblivion complete,
Writ in my honour now and then--
Yawning betook him to a pen.
Ye billows of blue Hadria's sea,
Ye dreams of heavenly poesy?Perchance to benefit mankind,
Ye feel but little interest,
Ye golden days of my young spring?
Ye groves whose depths I know so well,
Ye men of fashion cynical,
Ye mothers also, caution use,
Ye need dissimulation base
"Ye peaceful valleys all, good-bye!
Ye shadows of a life more high,
Ye well-known mountain summits high,
Yea! although rendered beauteous
Yea! and a man of honour, lo!
Years have inclined me to stern prose,
Years to light rhyme themselves oppose,
Yelping, a pack of dogs rush out,
Yes! every one must have his foes,
Yes! for our unpretending home,
Yes, happy--though she at his side
Yet as a rule their talk I call
Yet clearer shines than every light
Yet curses on his fate bestowing,
Yet dares not, dedicate its strain,
Yet I in idleness expend
Yet let us part in friendship, O
Yet neither Virgil nor Racine
Yet satiated with success,
Yet sometimes banished hopes will rise
Yet sometimes pages two or three
Yet sometimes this or that deceit
Yet still apparently aspire
Yet still her heart, which torments tear,
Yet still of anecdotes a treasure
Yet still remains the old despair.
Yet suffering emotional
Yet viewing her from head to foot,
Yet was her inmost soul o'erjoyed
Yet with a feigned frigidity
Yon silly moon upon the brink
Yonder the household lad doth run,
You choose."--"But who is she?"--"My wife.""So thou art wed! I did not know.
You fall in love again. But still--
"You have a letter to me sent.
You in the least commiserate
You know that I am now a fool--
You never since your nose have shown.
You never would have heard the name,
You o'er your wine insulted hath--
You will not all abandon me.
You with stern countenance declare
You'll find her portrait there, I vouch;
You'll spend your winter famously!
You, he a noble mind disclosed,
Young ladies in a vasty curve,
Young ladies' faces and their feet.
Young ladies, if ye ever strove
Your conversation cold and hard,
"Your fashionable world I hate,
Your frankness I shall compensate
Your heart possesses, I know well,
Your innocent and charming note
Your magic voices I shall greet,
"Your second you have left behind!"
Your smiling lips, your beaming eyes,
Your steed, though rough-shod, cannot keep
Youth freshens beneath Passion's showers,
Zaretski and Monsieur Guillot
Zaretski bit his lip in wrath,
Zaretski paces thirty-two
Zaretski rose, nor would explain,
Zaretski shouted: "Why, he's killed!"--
Zaretski with a knowing grin,
Zaretski, once a bully bold,
Zaretski, village mechanician,
Zizi, thou mirror of my mind,










Nor Byron, Walter Scott, nor Seneca,
Fair source of every fine idea,
Upon the highway of the sea
Ye billows of blue Hadria's sea,
Time to denote by dinner, tea,
Perchance where Dunia pours out tea
Its name, my friends, was Martin Zadeka,
At last the author!" cries Mamma.
Tattiana
But sudden fear assailed Tattiana,
"Say, of the two which was Tattiana?"
And silent as the maid Svetlana
And I, remembering Svetlana,
Next Saturday. The Larina
Verses and tears et cetera.
Bouyanoff whisked off Poustiakova.
To Tania Lenski; Kharlikova,
Each other as the shore we climb!
He writes upon his parents' tomb,
Opened the portals of the tomb
My poor Vladimir! In the tomb,
And lo! where lies a marble tomb
Or for the solitary tomb
Is the world to him sealed and dumb?
The inmate is for ever dumb,
And oft its Dictionary thumb.
He oft upon his lips would curb,
Thinking: 'tis foolish to disturb
He found them in an almanac,
And Virtue acts as a narcotic,
And triumphs in career erotic.
What! really going? 'Tis too bad!
Above the ashes of the dead.
Ah! than a spectre from the dead
Some are afar and some are dead.
To seek him out with bended head.
Shaking with serious air the head,
Now of a family the head,
Whene'er he had an aching head;
And soon Lel hovered o'er her head.
His shop, a night-cap on his head,
All silently hung down his head.
And gently hovered o'er my head?
For patience, reader, I must plead!
But on the third of grove and mead
Or a swift hare from mead to mead
But ah! discerns nor wood nor mead--
I slumber much, a little read,
For on their brows I trembling read
Do not excuse yourself. I read
The first-fruits of my tale I read,
Some nice instructive novel read,
And lessons to his children read.
But presently she tried to read;
'Tis finished. Horrible to read!
No other book had time to read.
A little farther please to read
Thereon the passing traveller read:
I Apuleius gladly read
And pauses oft to serve out bread.
With shame I shudder and with dread--
Upon her brow sits wrath alone--And it may be a secret dread
Unto a ruthless tyrant dread.
Nor slander viciously could spread
And two old pines their branches spread--
The pile of books, with carpet spread
For the impatient chief instead.
And cool sagacious mind he had:
A new world was made manifest!Although we know that Eugene had
Tattiana loved as when a lad,
Inhabited the country, clad
In dressing-gown, a cuckold glad:
But Lenski, I should be so glad
Could taste the pleasures of the road.
Grant that I err not on the road."
He dragged her by a forest road
Would lose his slippers or gazette.Time flies! a genial air abroad,
An idle anchorite and sad,
His arm he offers. Mute and sad,
In love-lorn meditation sad.
I was incensed and he was sad.
Still certain authors, I may add,
At seven in summer rose from bed,
With book in hand reclined in bed,
Undressed herself and went to bed
With hopeless passion: from her bed
Aroused Tattiana from her bed.
'Tis time for supper, now for bed,
Beneath the window-sill his bed,
And finally, upon his bed
She could not sleep in her new bed.
So she her silken sash unlaced,
Upon the tumbled sofa placed,
The friends are called and quickly placed.Right opposite Tattiana placed,
Bear gone--she at the threshold placed;
Eugene in hackney carriage placed.
Most carefully Zaretski placed
Except one by the window placed
Beneath her downy pillow placed,
He drops his pistol silently.He on his bosom gently placed
In coach or post-cart duly placed
The ancient _barshtchina_ replaced
The two old ladies then embraced
Lay all the girls by sleep embraced,
In what he merely acquiesced.
To all good neighbours' sport conduced.
At Larina's abode produced
All overtures of friendship ended.
Most by this circumstance offended
The workpeople she superintended,
The bath on Saturdays attended,
Vice had due punishment awarded,
When to enlarge we shall succeed,
It may be that I did proceed--
Not all will like myself proceed--
Thither in future to proceed
And cares not farther to proceed;
'Tis done. To supper they proceed.
Will not five centuries exceed
He was a dangerous fool indeed.
Mortally sick I am indeed.
His uncle, busy man indeed,
Remarkable. She then indeed
Hissed forth. With serious air indeed,
Of fleeting glory take no heed.
But I perceive thou dost not heed--"
He took no more the slightest heed;
"Enough, arise! for much we need
Up to the attic, and all need
She seeks the garden in her need--
Whither and wherefore do I speed
Had run across her path at speed,
Whene'er across the plain at speed
Nay, near--but destiny decreed--
From the moist cork the bottle freed
And all with one accord agreed,
Alone she gallops on her steed,
On the dull stage find all things changed,
But the date subsequently changed
By visions who was ne'er deranged
The wedding-day had been arranged,
Nor from the mob polite estranged,
A careless looker-on estranged
A breathless silence then, prolonged--
What visions then her fancy thronged--
What bitter tears with thee I shed!
And bitter tears of fright I shed.
Drive out the cattle from their shed,
And in society might shed
I mourn, but tears I cannot shed--
And long perukes hath vanished.
Just at that time his father died,
My mother-in-law who lately died
Vice in romance is glorified
Customs by ages sanctified,
A visionary mortified,
Virtue was with a bride rewarded.But now our minds are mystified
But in his heart dissatisfied,
And ringing wine-glasses are plied.
Were you in love when you were young?"--"Alack! Tattiana," she replied,
Lenski unto the dame replied,
And a new diadem supplied.
The new moon's crescent slim she spied,
Tattiana's trouble might have spied,
By a rich pie were occupied--
Longtime her mind is occupied.
The princess from the sofa cried
"I shall expire," Tattiana cried,
And not a speck of dirt descried.
The matter by his conscience tried,
To sketch myself that I have tried
I should alarm our friendship tried:
Successfully to please her tried,
Delusions of a mind untried,
Her bow was easy, unreserved.Ah no! no faintness her attacked
The balls impelled, the blunt cue chalked;
And a long time about her talked.
He round the billiard-table stalked,
Whither two neighbouring dames have walked
Shamefaced, Tattiana downward looked
A life of fact, not fiction, led--
And such unconsciously he led,
A hermit's life Oneguine led,
He conversation would have led--
And to the field of honour led;
But since to the backdoor they led
This life in masquerade concealed,
I cannot longer wage concealed.
By melancholy fogs concealed.
Tell me, of sentiments concealed
More swift the room Tattiana fled,
Nor marked how summer's prime had fled
Sweet slumber winged its way and fled.
Soon, of the tempest which hath fled
But, I acknowledge, from them fled;
Of the Tattiana of times fled.
Repose her silken curtains fled,
The troop of apparitions fled,
Nay! even as this instant fled,
The pains of night have wholly fled,
Of London life is "vulgar" called
Is it that I am now compelled
Cried the old dame with anguish filled:
And with remorseful anguish filled,
As if with eider-down is filled.
And heard a voice cry--_Why! He's killed!_--
Zaretski shouted: "Why, he's killed!"--
The channel of the river stilled
Our tender dreamer had enrolled
A gambling troop when he controlled,
By Faublas in his youth was schooled,
Which might for many ages last.Surely ye all have overhauled
With blood instead of ink she scrawled,
Which all her darling friends have scrawled
And in her conversation drawled.
Transparent o'er the Neva beamed
The peace which on his forehead beamed,
But kindness from his eye had beamed
And when the watery mirror gleamed
Her the ideal which he dreamed,
As if some troubled dream she dreamed.
The purest of the dreams we dreamed,
She never of deception dreamed
His elegies, which plenteous streamed,
The blood gushed from the wound and steamed
Pursues phantasmagoria vain.Why is Tattiana guiltier deemed?--
A few of different temper deemed,
Oneguine was--so many deemed,
But one buffoon unhappy deemed
Both natural and truthful seemed.
And endless the cotillon seemed
That our desires which noblest seemed,
A notoriety proclaimed,
Because my lord, in battles maimed,
When hope's delightful flower but bloomed
He thought so, and existence charmed.
And he who, jealousy disarmed,
How soon to habits she conformed
Our paradise is no more sweet.Ah! how Tattiana was transformed,
To say farewell, and fussed and fumed
Only her countenance assumed
The manly toga scarce assumed,
Tattiana in despair unfeigned
Where many another hand had signed
And vows will probably be signed:
Her money counted, and designed
Tall, slender, like thy form designed,
Though, God be praised! he ne'er designed
Caricatures he now designed
That, for the century designed,
Made revelations undesigned,
Or even, silent and resigned,
Spring cheered him up, and he resigned
To arid selfishness resigned,
When harsh demeanour hath consigned
Which Autumn late to earth consigned,
Because a member I became.Once more to idleness consigned,
Have e'er a precious tress consigned,
His lyre, to silence now consigned,
What do I ask? What cause assigned
A happy destiny ordained:
A valuable hostage gained,
A modern Regulus unchained,
Tattiana o'er the stream complained;
Whose hearts responsive have remained
Inseparable they remained.
So irremissible appear?O ye whom tender love hath pained
And saying this Vladimir drained
She consolation thence obtained--
A something somehow have obtained,
At fifty who relief obtained
My sum of happiness contained;
He sang of life's fresh colours stained
Hath tranquilly in turn attained,
With us is easily attained.
The fruits of learning and combined
And handsome countenance combined,
A tender couplet he combined,
With intellect, a taste refined,
His chambers close wherein confined
Love to idealize inclined;
I'm not for witchcraft now inclined.
At first for books was disinclined,
And on the last one, underlined:
Anticipating woe she pined,
The venerable dame opined
Certain misfortune near opined.
Now a long branch itself entwined
Constant affection intertwined
If the fond hope I could have fanned
There, aping Gulnare's bard, he spanned
Though Baratynski verses penned,
Alarm the winter journey gave.The date was fixed though oft postponed,
The maiden's weary eye which yearned,
A spirit which for sorrow yearned.
Tattiana more than ever burned
His neighbour's lowly tomb and mourned
Tattiana thanks to all returned,
To his Penates now returned,
He on the conflagration frowned.
Our heroes at full gallop sped,
The matchmaker a fortnight sped,
Into the cups already sped
Of lackeys in her pathway grouped,
Their glory with their heels of red
Of his approach; but nothing cared
A countenance perplexed and scared.
An explanation: she was scared,
Her features no grimaces bleared;
My word of honour given have I.The tea, as I remarked, appeared,
Another with cock's head appeared,
But Adam Smith to read appeared,
A faithful model she appeared
To an assembly--she appeared
But this a heinous crime appeared
But in the drawing-room all appeared
And Tania's husband soon appeared.--
With Olga; nor of this appeared
In dressing-gown at meals appeared.
For evermore had disappeared.
O yes! my hopes soon disappeared."
My image hath not disappeared,
Meals, secrets, occupations shared?
Asunder was and hate prepared?
And they the waters recommend.He went not--sooner was prepared
I mused: perhaps the matter's squared--
Quarrels among young friends he bred
Upon the Don's broad pastures bred
Both ducks and geese in plenty bred
Homer, Theocritus, he jeered,
And many another slily sneered;
In her affairs ne'er interfered,
Seemed in a haze of green embowered.
The valleys dried and gaily flowered;
His soul by crash of music fired,
Extinct the flame which once had fired;
By indolence and languor fired
Singing God knows what maid admired,
To kiss the feet which I admired!
In amorous flights when so inspired,
His tea with rum no more desired,
'Tis in your power now, if desired,
How like the billow I desired
The fated nutriment desired;
And both of dull existence tired,
Strummed by a timid schoolgirl o'er.I write to you! Is more required?
I long by ballets have been bored,
An ace at fifteen paces bored.
Since Fame and Freedom he adored,
Though beauty he no more adored,
His ruffian bravery adored,
Either she saw not or ignored;
Neighbour by neighbour sat and snored,
Contented and with victuals stored,
And harmony was soon restored.
Deeming himself a veteran scarred
I long enough deceived have erred.
Where the first time she met with _him_.Thus widely meditation erred,
Tattiana through the forest erred,
Of the romances she preferred,
And what she from the cards inferred.
The Medal Otchakoff conferred!
Tattiana every day conferred
Of Olga he in song averred;
As Saadi anciently averred--
In the recesses what hath stirred
Whilst from her countenance ne'er stirred
And by a partial temper stirred
And by a genuine sorrow stirred,
Oneguine's speeches I abhorred
Sit many monstrous shapes abhorred.
He who economy abhorred,
What hath he dreamed? What hath occurred?
Of censure for the same incurred;
The poet from Tamboff secured,
Till proper rings could be procured.
At first, but soon became inured
On melted wax in water poured;
Odes Lenski also had outpoured,
In fact, some people were assured
Rebuffed--as quickly reassured,
A marriageable maid matured,
Trembles at artificial shame.The shining pistols are uncased,
Till the fire in her cheek decreased;
More timid than a doe long chased,
The contact of the foot I raised
And leaning 'gainst the portal closed
You, he a noble mind disclosed,
On chairs in the saloon reposed,
To her an elegy composed.
Though some men, evilly disposed,
And Flianoff, somewhat indisposed,
Was famous for thick-headedness.Lenski that eve in thought immersed,
In love adventures she was versed,
But he who by the Muse was nursed
The blessings of humanity.Or, it may be, the bard had passed
Alas! for now before her passed
When Friendship smiled or Love caressed.
The style in which my hero dressed;
"What ails thee?"--"Nothing."--He is fled.At home arriving he addressed
At times three words to him addressed
And when I prayer to Heaven addressed
Replaced them in their box, undressed
When all around the entrance pressed,
Bullets are down the barrels pressed,
"What ails thee, dear?"--"I feel depressed.
But sits in bed with air depressed,
Are not with elegance impressed.
The image of her seal impressed.
And kindness Tania was impressed,
Oneguine was the most impressed,
And thoughts of Olga first impressed
Ever by adverse fate oppressed,
The strange apartment her oppressed:
Is it not truth? in tones suppressed
Know that your sarcasm ill-suppressed,
How much is in that word expressed!
So she in French herself expressed.
Not agony, but death expressed.
Wherein the heart its vows expressed,
Delighted, almost sane in mind.But once more pensive and distressed
Then weeping she sank back distressed
A deadly pallor, air distressed;
Nor enough strength of mind possessed
But tremor still her frame possessed,
The maid whose note he still possessed
If the poor maiden could have guessed
Within that secret court discussed,
The room my former master used.
Hewn, hacked, and otherwise ill-used.
That rascal Lovelace she abused;
By friendship how they were abused,
No signs of trouble her accused,
The hussar Pykhtin was accused.
Bouyanoff courted. She refused.
Nought in the universe refused:
And though her soul might be confused,
Some Russian authors he perused--
A book at early morn perused.
Not that she had his works perused,
Was with himself dissatisfied.In fact, the subject analysed,
Was he in health and void of care?--Even so! His passions soon abated,
The frolics of maidens.They sang, whilst negligently seated,
He ought to have conciliated
By daily life deteriorated,
But man of sense and probity.He might his motives have narrated,
Her inmost soul had penetrated,
Nor long his mind was agitated
Awhile this beauty captivated,
Were to analysis subjected.
Hath she a fitting phrase selected?
And life and fate in turn selected
They long at home have her expected--
Tattiana with impatience waited
His visit she had not awaited,
A bastard fame prohibited?
Vladimir Lenski visited
How the young imp on Tania doted!
To captivate her how devoted!
By Olga's hand distributed
And every year distributed
All mothers their sweet girls believed
Of what he thought and what believed,
And she at last hath us deceived;
Lenski as a good match received,--
In vain was youth by us received,
Upon those margins she perceived
Retained the image, though short-lived,
The neighbourhood fresh sport derived.
At an old aunt's they had arrived
Harnessed the rapid sledge arrived:
A new proprietor arrived,
They talked and laughed. The guests arrived.
The fatal tubes Lepage contrived
Which afterwards the muse revived.
The conversation was revived
Who had for four long years survived
Turned and replied as it behoved,
Which glowed with virginal desire.When but a boy he Olga loved
And ditties of the steppe she loved.
Perceived that he was still beloved,
He witnessed tenderly and moved
Already by repentance moved
Oneguine, by first impulse moved,
And as a country damsel roved,
And these the attentive maid observed
Strictly the Carnival observed,
And ancient usages observed
For first "madame" his wants observed,
His energy and impotence.And numerous pages had preserved
And soon the friendly troop hath fled.They in a peaceful life preserved
A mien unaltered she preserved,
But Eugene was by fate preserved,
But proudly in his song preserved
The gifted songster never swerved,
Journeys and warriors to wed.
And when her violence reviewed--
The breath of Spring again renewed,
Simple and kindly and unwed,
Without the least constraint he bowed.
Who to the youthful hostess bowed,
In company, or simply bowed,
Et cetera_; but nothing showed
He gazed upon the clock which showed
A scant attendance Lenski showed
Till amid trees a hovel showed,
Oneguine ne'er as poet showed
I know there's none more amiable.But from the interview what flowed?
The insensate fire of love still glowed
And privileges nice allowed,
Enraptured was he if allowed
He wrote and spoke, so all allowed,
In correspondence been allowed.
Passion's wild sway I then allowed,
And necessary fools allowed.
Having a trusty staff bestowed,
Please her by their decorum fixed,
Titles and ages intermixed.
He with his little maiden played,
At prisoner's base she never played.
The deuce with my inside has played."
The drama of my youth was played.
All sons of mental weariness.Eight rubbers were already played,
Meadows and cornfields are displayed,
Without amaze or wrath displayed:
In Olga's face no life's displayed.
With bitter tears my mother prayed,
And when for Olga nurse arrayed
That we her constantly betrayed
Thus carelessly I once portrayed
Change of position had essayed,
There long time sad at heart he stayed:
Yet was her inmost soul o'erjoyed
Upon a soul inert and cloyed?--
Their noisy laugh her soul annoyed,
Of course Tattiana was annoyed
And is all light within destroyed?
"What is your name?" The boor looked dazed,
She on the apparition gazed,
Again imagination blazed,
And "Agathon" replied, amazed.
And vehemently though amazed
Which Ovid once immortalized,
Whom hath thy strain immortalized?
With tenderness hath recognized
For which the poet agonized
In much his conduct stigmatized;
Her Martin Zadeka in aid,
Tattiana doth accept his aid;
He found him on the table laid,
And many a day thereafter laid
The powder in the pan is laid,
Should go, the market for a maid,
And, hanging down her head, the maid
Beneath her parents' eyes the maid
At early morn returns the maid
Singing inside her hut the maid
She comprehends. The simple maid
My pretty self-deceiving maid--
In Olga's album, youthful maid,
Remained with him the youthful maid.
And for Tattiana, mournful maid,
Alone with my Venetian maid,
Mine own ideal, the mountain maid,
For shame lift up the modest maid.
Of a young dark-eyed country maid,
To classicism I've homage paid,
Nor frigid adulation paid.
Fortune the poet had repaid.
No time to pick it up! afraid,
That bilberry wine, I'm sore afraid,
Bruin is marching at her back!She, to turn back her eyes afraid,
Oneguine then approached and said:
"Poor Yorick," mournfully he said,
Gazing into his face, she said:
What they in conversation said?--
That certain volumes she might read.Adieu she to the matron said
And the old nurse a brief prayer said
Though scarcely following what was said,
With many a vacancy, 'tis said."--
In whispers low the neighbours said:
But finally she softly said:
Vladimir something curtly said
And spectacles, his knitting staid
So be it! Just the laws which bid
Better than Chateaubriand did
A ball he fell as Tchatzki did.
In mist profound all yet is hid.
Had rendered him an invalid;
Returning, from his ship amid
Wherefore am I your quarry held?--
She dreamt she journeyed o'er a field
And thus in season the rich field
As one who bivouacs afield,
Scornfully challenged you afield--
Gay flowers and luscious fruit doth yield.
What are they? Gladly would I yield
And can it be? But late a child
"What can be done? She is no child!"
An ardent heart and yet so mild?--
And now a fickle flirt and wild,
With an imagination wild,
And Limburg cheese alive and old
He took the room wherein the old
But that Princess Pauline of old,
I also wandered there of old,
"We never loved in days of old,
These evenings as in days of old
And the suspicious veteran old,
Tattiana in traditions old
An almanac but eight years old.
Werther, rebellious martyr bold,
The wolf upon the highways bold
Zaretski, once a bully bold,
November at the gate did stand.The morn arises foggy, cold,
Blank, unapproachable and cold.
He laughs, although it aches from cold,
But cannot stand the northern cold.
And frosty as a Twelfth Night cold.
His mother from the door doth scold.
His housekeeper was wont to scold,
How empires store of wealth unfold,
Afar, where clothed in green and gold
The medium is required of gold.
Is seen next pine-apples of gold.
Alas! she is as hard, behold,
Before it ran a stream. Behold!
Some marriageable maids behold,
In one he doth accounts behold,
Had killed me had the like been told."
Her Moscow cousin, often told
And the young ladies fortunes told,
In dreams and what the moon foretold
A journey to Moscow! To see the world!
The Great World
Heard he the truth? And thus she could--
Or kiss the border of her dress.To Olga frequently he would
She promised Eugene, or she would
Of friends unceremonious would
The Neva's Cleopatra, and
Of a strange night when the moon and--
With blessings on the ditches and
Her tears flow plentifully and
Exist--that their immortal band
No one appeared to lend a hand.
Than health, so with a trembling hand
Heedless of your despairing cry?Eugene, his pistol yet in hand
Intoned it, manuscript in hand.
With the "Well-Wisher" in her hand!
Her foot was in my other hand.
Some wretched journal in his hand;
A weary season was at hand--
Of Africa, ancestral land,
With thoughts of a far distant land,
To agitate me in my dreams.When, where, and in what desert land,
Friends of the sons of every land,
And in the bathroom did command
In times gone by thy bare command--"
Sickness more courage doth command
The poet, modest though so grand,
Those feet? Alas! on what far strand
To dream upon the sunny strand
Gazing on Lenski's corse did stand--
To see you by our fireside stand,
Immersed in secret thought I stand
At each extreme one takes his stand,
None the conviction could withstand
"Oh! nurse, nurse, you don't understand!
Wearied of leisure in the end,
And had with waddling in the end
Charms more enduring in the end.
And thou, persistent to the end,
My days of life approach their end,
"Enough to see one winter's end;
To thy decree my will I bend.
To cock the pistol; barrel bend
A passionate desire to bend
To end with him her path below.To Love all ages lowly bend,
The thunderbolt on you descend!
Learn Russian, but the Lord defend!
Will you?"--"Agreed."--"I thank you, friend,"
But thou, Bordeaux, art like the friend
Are admirable, my dear friend,
In duel having killed his friend
And farewell thou, my gloomy friend,
If not, the money I will lend."
An ear to my confession lend;
Their natural attractions lend
And, sobbing at your feet, to blend
His gusts should fertilize, amend,
Yet I in idleness expend
All to the doctors Eugene send,
Assistance ever will extend,
And what will Destiny concede?"Farther Tattiana's walks extend--
Into the starry night extend.
Quick to the country let us wend
But finally in wedlock bind.
His mournful heart no peace could find,
Where thine equal shall we find?
The young proprietor we find;
Upon the opening page ye find:
Scarcely in Russia can ye find
But what astonished do I find
Fresh cause of quarrel then I'll find,
Beyond this may attempt to write_.Infallibly you there will find
But trembles, words he cannot find,
And all in snow is buried deep.The wood she enters--bear behind,--
Of dreary Russia left behind,
"Your second you have left behind!"
Ye dreams of heavenly poesy?Perchance to benefit mankind,
To Dunia then they whisper: Mind!
A fiery and eccentric mind,
A duellist of classic mind,
Had perished a creative mind,
His immorality of mind
From mere vacuity of mind
But soon their choice seemed to her mind
Become alarmed. So never mind!
Oneguine's pencillings. His mind
One image occupied his mind,
But one thought only filled his mind,
It gradually possessed his mind;
A pair; though desolate my mind,
Zizi, thou mirror of my mind,
And the recesses of my mind
That I to you reveal my mind?
So uncongenial to my mind,
Of which the rustling woods remind?
Who dreams expound and prophecies.Brought by a pedlar vagabond
Of whirligigs were very fond,
Until her heart less high should bound--
By barren snow heaped up and bound,
Of clamorous geese flew southward bound.
These to the coach of state are bound,
Twice in the year to fast were bound,
The lancer, to his calling bound,
That mind which yearns for space is bound?
She wore her corset tightly bound,
And stoves of various shapes abound.
Funeral amateurs abound!
However cherries might abound,
What jokes and guesses now abound,
A stream, by winter's ice unbound,
A beau is for Tattiana found!
And if Tattiana mine had found--
Lo! in my garden was she found
(This by command; for it was found,
Examined, mended, newly found
This monument of thought profound
From hence engrossed in thought profound
Baggage is heaped up in a mound,
Endless conjectures all propound
And secretly their views expound.
But, when Oneguine's turn came round,
Of horn in circle call them round.
And her upon the threshold laid.Recovering, Tania gazes round;
But suddenly all changed around!
Imperial portraits hang around
And from the country all around
Selfish nonentities around?
The German baker looks around
The snows from off the hills around
A tangled wilderness around.
And leave a marsh the fertile ground
And flooded all the level ground.
Amid the snowdrifts which surround
And by the fiddle's rushing sound
Attentive to the echoing sound,
Nor at the hour of noon with sound
The Russian N with nasal sound
Morning awakes with joyous sound;
Were stripped with melancholy sound,
Whilst struggling for the heritage.Soon Olga's accents shrill resound
Inside clink glasses, cries resound
Then handed her the song with grace.Congratulations, toasts resound,
"I with my friend intend to fight!"If he had only known the wound
Amid coquettes who pray to God
Will happiness replace. My God!
Seven days and nights the travellers plod.
Debate commanded ample food--
The fruits of science, evil, good,
Such is the country custom good;
The gossip of their ladies fair.Handsome and rich, the neighbourhood
Assemble from the neighbourhood:
Which in a hilly neighbourhood
And spur my spirit's torpid mood!
Absorbed in melancholy mood
But such is not for me. I brood
Tattiana as enchanted stood;
Guillot behind a pollard stood;
Oneguine meditative stood,
Sees where a noble mansion stood,
Whose author nature understood
At this time almost understood.
A village and beneath, a wood,
Dark was the valley and the wood
The river through the linden wood.
And abject slaves who kiss the rod;
How I have erred and felt the rod!
A worshipper of Kant, a bard,
The Country DamselCanto The Third"Whither away? Deuce take the bard!"--
Triquet arose, and for the bard
He was no more! The youthful bard
Here an old witch with hirsute beard,
In love's campaigns Oneguine heard
But ye to whom, when friendship heard,
Her utterances ever heard,
What never was remarked or heard
When in the grand saloon was heard
And hark! the clank of spurs is heard
Nor aught confides unto the rest.Tattiana would have gladly heard
And ought he not to disregard
Your conversation cold and hard,
The poet's madness? for 'tis hard
"I won't detain you; but 'tis hard
A young and handsome galliard.
What doth she see? Around the board
The company deep silence guard.
Her Grandison was in the Guard,
He hies unto the "Boulevard,"
She enters a deserted yard--
Beneath her lay a strange courtyard,
Believed, the people's wisdom weird,
Marmontel also, tome the third;
Epistle second, note the third,
Whose qualities appeared to afford
She deemed its outline might afford.
Lo! my Oneguine rural lord!
Sighs on another than her lord
To dominate her worthy lord,
Command him not to say a word--
Reform me both in deed and word,
Together they returned, nor word
Each gust of temper, silly word,
Oneguine wasted; on my word,
Seems so unnatural and absurd:
Of late I have been quite absurd,--
No more the music thunders loud,
With lengthened howl and accent loud,
And never hath our language proud
Of my light paramour was proud.
He enters: in the hall a crowd,
Pursuits I followed of the crowd,
Or recognized not in the crowd.
Amazed at the confusing crowd,
Before a cold indifferent crowd,
Or he dispersed the motley crowd
And I, amid the friendly crowd,
The mystic monogram, O. E.
That girl--but he must dreaming be--
But what a nuisance it will be,
Feelings which long had ceased to be
I would desire my bride to be--
Is still condemned in love to be;
Sombre or glad in turn to be,
And this fifth canto ought to be
As lordly mansions ought to be,
He mused: "I will her saviour be!
As many entertainments be!
"Do not--you might--suspicious be;
Is it a dream, and can it be?
Long ago. Dream it cannot be!
Reader, whoever thou mayst be,
Or a swift meteor, may be,
Or reconciled them, it may be,
With worldly honours, it may be,
Lenski replied, and soon they be
Inseparable soon they be.
Whilst he "belle Nina" had the face
And physic bring with mournful face,
No, ever to behold your face,
I never should have seen your face
Where the first time I saw your face,--
But gazes on Oneguine's face
No more the village knows his face,
Pallid and melancholy face,
"She who with melancholy face
Depicted on your haughty face!
Time will the ravages efface--
Oneguine--the beloved place
Bright blazed the window of the place,
Her in the pitfalls which we place.
And then "monsieur" supplied her place;
Hard by the window took her place."--
Why did you visit our poor place?
Drank to her health in the first place,
To follow you in every place,
To the abandoned dwelling-place.
And after them at headlong pace
Through clouds of dust at postal pace,
Accelerates her hasty pace,
"Warm yourself here a little space!"
At the front gates, but in brief space
Hallo, Andriushka, onward race!
And who the rent-roll of his race
Inheritor of all his race.
The boy was wild but full of grace.
An ancient lady full of grace.--
The easier 'tis to gain her grace,
He called to mind Tattiana's grace,
A print without the picture's grace,
Callous to all he seemed to be.Ye miracles of courtly grace,
What acrimonious scorn I trace
For there he left a mournful trace.
And my Eugene the path must trace--
Of the commencement of the piece.
A blessed bottle, placed in ice,
The shining river clothed in ice;
Two poles together glued by ice,
Stately, devoid of prejudice,
Was ready for self-sacrifice,
But wherefore not?--'Tis pleasant, nice,
Behold! than polished floor more nice
A noted fop who gambled hard.Like his, her dress was always nice,
The hoar-frost glitters: all rejoice
Euphonious, though I know a spice
In mother Winter's strange caprice.
And the extent of his caprice;
And shall adopt some new caprice.
"Bring dinner now without delay!"Upon the table in a trice
The excited hero in a trice
Then they're so innocent of vice,
But contrary to her advice
Of Christmas carols, song and dance;
And his strange conduct at the dance
Again in her ethereal dance?
Before him her wild game of chance.
Can scarce in sweetness be a match.Well, if your pistol ball by chance
Meeting you in times past by chance,
In serious mood or dalliance
Thine eye subdued me with strange glance,
His momentary loving glance
God grant that all who herein glance,
A pensive sorrow in her glance
Who by a haughty word or glance
Warmth I imagined in your glance,
In thee, thou world of empty bliss.In groups, official striplings glance
Frequent and rapid doth his glance
Free scope he yields unto his glance,
Or will my melancholy glance
Upon the stage his weary glance.
The days of love and of romance!
And in her hand a French romance.
Canto the First of this romance.
Reviews both dress and countenance,
When people with long countenance
Seek the forgotten countenance
He yawns, averts his countenance,
I heard thy voice's resonance
A lethargy of sense, a trance,
Then would we muse as in a trance,
The hero's name too in advance,
And views amongst themselves advance
A loaded pistol in his hand."Advance!"--
Such open-hearted innocence.
Of her provincial innocence
Then to reward such confidence
Tattiana learns the intelligence--
Her amorous experience
He wanders in his indolence;
And natural benevolence,
And aimless journeys did commence--
Oh! what had been his eminence!
Habit would bring indifference.
I yield with a low reverence;
To friendship making no pretence,
I cannot tell on what pretence--
But this adventure's consequence
I, after so much eloquence,
Not to behave as he did once--
Or a good fellow for the nonce,
Our idol, Honour's motive force,
And the newcomers welcome bade.
And yet oblivion forbade.
Lo! poured in a thin gray cascade,
It may be that his martyred shade
The murmuring brook, the woodland shade,
My lyre sings sweeter in the shade
As in a thicket's humble shade,
Hid in the gondola's dark shade,
Whilst nearer, sunk in deeper shade,
Beneath the sheltering oak tree's shade
There, there, beneath the side-scene's shade
In the Lyceum's noiseless shade
Was the first question Olga made,
He whom we sing to shall be made
Or better,--like a faithful wife.I was for calm existence made,
Straight for the entrance then he made
Though the foul vision promise made
Though late, have a beginning made.
As to a worthy man and good!But sad is the reflection made,
But no reply unto her made.
For our amusement ever made
Nor further comment that night made.
Whose heart experience icy made
A certain little escapade
They shovel silver with a spade,
The goddess would a masquerade
Choosing a profitable trade,
Were I like you a bard by trade--
But cannot anyhow evade
For ever faithful will abide."
His fate shall presently decide.
Doubt and uncertainty decide:
Like Leonora did she ride
A lean and shaggy nag doth ride,
She leisurely away doth ride,
"He promised here this day to ride,"
Unto the windmill he must ride
On horseback every day they ride--
But I am now another's bride--
Or monster of Satanic pride,
Like Byron, bard of scorn and pride,
Amid the soulless sons of pride
A bearded postillion astride
Suddenly to the left hand side,
And hastened to his uncle's side,
Tattiana by a poor aunt's side,
Yes, happy--though she at his side
But grown familiar side by side
Found them in darkness side by side,
If thou wert sitting by my side,
Jaws are at work. On every side
Mute glances interchanged aside
In consultation stand aside--
But now all doubt was set aside,
And soon Oneguine's door beside
With me Caucasian rocks beside!
A pair of bullets--nought beside--
Ate Russian pancakes at Shrovetide,
Always together, eventide
Meet punishment for him provide.
Beneath her roaring opened wide:
And death before the husband wide
And the saloon threw open wide;
Oneguine oped the cupboards wide.
Noblesse and models of the mode,
Of a most mournful episode,
To foreign lands he would allude,
And unto whom we all allude
Deep in the distant province rude,
Beneath the flag of Quietude,
Secure in rural quietude--
Then, then--well, in some solitude
Before whom once in solitude,
Where long time he in solitude
Daily of love in solitude.
In worldly din or solitude
Before he eighteen years attained.Since Eugene in that solitude
Fly frequent to my solitude,
My soul is filled with gratitude!
Measured with great exactitude.
Displayed a noble rectitude--
My scholar without aptitude
To part in amity with thee!
From henceforth I confide to thee!
Hath fate apportioned unto thee
Then, I say truly, none but thee
"Shall I proceed, or homeward flee?
'Tis hopeless! Homeward doth he flee
In snow she sinks up to the knee;
By Providence's dark decree!
Tender and elevated, free?
When shall I wing my passage free
From such digressions wholly free.
Impressed him in the least degree,--
Perchance he will to all the three.
Yet sometimes pages two or three
His valet brings him letters three.
Tome of "Malvina," and but three
Knew not an iamb from a choree,
My tongue is somewhat rusty now.Tattiana! sweet Tattiana, see!
"Olinka is her junior, see.
A mansion--by the window, see!
The house and garden I would see."
And a guitar produced we see,
Behind the mill. Meantime ye see
Virgins miraculous I see,
Know that thy face that day I see.
Whither shall he go first? He'll see,
The giddy world at last shall see.
He usually was glad to see
But nought for this Tattiana cares.The break of day she doth not see,
The letter is the thing, you see,--
The poet's hour hath sounded--See!
Gallop, mazurka, waltzing--see!
Childe Harold, quaker, devotee,
Whilst the fond parents, friends thro' life,
Such was Oneguine's sainted life,
To move in fashionable life,
He in the early years of life
Who floats contentedly through life,
Commence a new career in life
And like his shadow dogged his life,
In many things had changed his life--
He knew not how to spend his life.
Should be respected throughout life
The die is cast! Thine is my life!
And leads a solitary life?
Of error and the passions' strife.
So be it! But internal strife
In aimless ease and far from strife,
Without profession, business, wife,
The Muse abandoned, ta'en a wife,
By every proper-minded wife,
Dreamed in the future man and wife.
Wherein the miserable wife
By children and by faithful wife
That I am rich, a prince's wife?--
Proud of his dinners and his wife!
But now ridiculous a bit.Behold Sabouroff, whom the age
But at a later, sterile age,
In boston and the game of age,
As the reflection of his age,
The twenty-sixth year of his age,
And testy gamesters do engage
And reached, with nought his mind to engage,
Or in a squabble to engage,
Sterner solicitudes engage,
Another could her heart engage,
A visionary personage
As once, to fill the rapid page
Saint Priest, who every album's page
Or faults of grammar on its page--
With humble prose I'll fill my page
As storms which in chill autumn rage
Thus having braved Apollo's rage
Remains on earth the unseemly rage,
Another could her woe assuage
Both aunts looked knowing as a judge,
Each gave Tattiana's arm a nudge
To vary for a few brief days.For two whole days it seemed a change
Our godlike tongue she could exchange
The cool dark oaken grove to range,
Placed at the customary range;
But sweeter still it is to arrange
For savage speech, uncouth and strange,
Is sweeter than thy Helen foul.No one the contrary will urge,
Again a century should scourge
Unto his own Tattiana he,
The traveller, bird of passage he,
That girl whom once on a time he
For empty sound the rascal swore he
A paragon of virtue he!
Sweeter it is, my friends, if he
All are amazed; but Lenski he
Three mortal hours per diem he
Tania well nigh expired when he
And by a sweet delusion he
Or Melmoth, gloomy wanderer he,
"Oh! I remember, where is he?"--
She oped her eyes and cried: 'tis he!
And cried within myself: 'tis he!
On Sundays by yon window he,
Dressed like a London dandy he
Voices and hands applaud, and she
And in her native language she
And a half rubles down gave she;
Nor on the letter yet hath she
And disappear in space; then she
On such a day. O Heavens, 'tis she!
Men love no more, as only the
And an encouragement did breathe
To Lucifer the cock must breathe
They first of all my brow did wreathe
No fond illusions live to soothe,
A dying man with art to soothe,
Before you agonized to die--
And silently I here must die--
The family of children hie.
Upon the earth a mist did lie
When deaf and silent he doth lie
Wherein my poor old nurse doth lie
There the tired ploughman loves to lie,
There'll be a fight. I do not lie.
_Reveillez-vouz, belle endormie_.
Of youthful impulse, reverie,
Contemplate her sad reverie.
Dark, unavailing reverie,
Aroused in him sweet reverie.
Unknown to all, without a tie,
The bridge and alley to the lake,
The fever of the blood to slake--
Her promptings unto law did make,
I the same admonition make.
He deemed his friends but longed to make
Acquaintance instantly to make.
E'en as the presence of a snake,
Through park and meadow, wood and brake,
Great sacrifices for his sake!
For law I _far niente_ take
My sportive Muse I used to take
And every morning I awake
To burn, yet reason keep awake
Or any trifle else ye like
Pedantic although scholar like,
Of the horizon she is like!"--
By computation) it is like
"The post hath kept him, it is like."
Oneguine waits on us, 'tis like."
The comrade of your youth should strike,
"'Tis time to get up! Seven doth strike.
Our roads transformed the eye will strike;
Then suddenly discharge a joke
A bogy conjured up in joke,
And barely visible the smoke
How artless was the note which spoke
He bowed to her nor silence broke,
And Lenski followed--a light broke--
The ladies' laughter to provoke.
Tattiana terrified awoke.
By Tania, smoothing his peruke,
But it grew late; cold blew the gale;
Already sings the nightingale.
Nor the frost particles inhale
But now in her effulgence pale
She, than the morning moon more pale,
How oft beneath the moonbeams pale
Oneguine's cheek grew ashy pale,
She trembled and grew deadly pale.
Entranced me by some mystic tale.
Thus we began our little tale--
Then it may be, O flattering tale,
The ball in all its splendour shone.I tried when I began this tale,,
Approach, approach; I am thine own."Thus in a style _obscure_ and _stale_,
Its waters to the neighbouring vale.
Fashion is there immutable,
Honour and pride inflexible.
And loves you as--a relative!Ahem! Ahem! My reader noble,
Permit me; is it worth the trouble
Ere crimson stains their hands defile,
Singing in chorus all the while.
Regained authority awhile,
The moment for revenge, meanwhile,
Because I should be sure, meanwhile,
Though we, of Hymen foes, meanwhile,
Thus the time passes and meanwhile
To see aught--never mind meanwhile)
Quite inadvertently meanwhile;
Espying, Eugene with a smile
As rosy lips without a smile,
They crack a feeble joke and smile--
That afterwards with evil smile
To mark with a contemptuous smile.
Which your true friend with a sweet smile
Cannot they amicably smile
'Twas built, the venerable pile,
Swearing how Lenski he would rile,
Scarce mindful of their love and guile.
They disappeared by stealth and guile,
But he desired not to beguile
Shall my declining years beguile;
The Russian language I deem vile
Also the works of Fontenelle,
Long listen, comprehend the whole
About the rain and flax and cattle."--
In their sterility of prattle,
Preserves and an eternal prattle
Questions and news and tittle-tattle,
I owe the censorship a little.
But will not modify a tittle--
The crystals of her vestibule
Though correspondence as a rule
Careless of every social rule,
He read the unbelieving Bayle,
He wrote ('tis the romantic style,
Her toilette's antiquated style,
Avenge himself in proper style.
A novel in Lafontaine's style,
To sketch ye in Albano's style.
In solid, unpretentious style,
And a romance in ancient style
The old Derjavine noticed me,
His character attracted me.
And fled afar--she followed me.
And, inspiration firing me,
Despair and anger seize on me,
You will not all abandon me.
That first the Muse appeared to me.
"Ah! come, Tattiana, come to me!
Mournful is thine approach to me,
But I--what is all this to me?
What is thy cleverness to me?
But Lord! from friends deliver me!
Thy cheek is as a poppy red!""Ah! nurse, a favour do for me!"--
Howl like a dolt: 'tis meant for me!
Open the window--sit by me."
The door flew open--Olga came,
From Gottingen inspired he came,
And straight returning whence he came,
"And is it long since back he came?
Will he pursue?--But no one came.
By "belle Tattiana" to replace.Lo! from the nearest barrack came,
But when the winter season came
Tattiana waits. No answer came!
Athwart the snow four paces came--
Her shoulder--Olga swiftly came--
Hateful the hollow world became,
Tattiana faltered, and became
Nor by her beauty she became
But turn we once more to our dame.
Whene'er a brilliant courtly dame
And comfort of each country dame,
The thirst of knowledge and of fame,
Time was the flattering voice of fame,
In hopes of everlasting fame
And at the altar of their fame
Will be ascribed by treacherous Fame
Strange unto her each childish game,
He takes his seat, concludes his game,
Horror of sinfulness and shame,
By recklessness amuse or shame
Believe me, of my present shame
That vicious set whom I don't blame--
He kindled his poetic flame.
Scarlet as burnt by inward flame.
By love's inevitable flame.
And gazed around with eyes of flame;
Is it that ardent souls of flame
Who knows? with love's consuming flame
More blooming than the Boreal flame
But fashionable hatred's flame
Lost in the hamlet far away.And in addition youth is flame
We are the first who such a name
You never would have heard the name,
And so Tattiana was her name,
Vladimir Lenski was his name,
A finished madrigal would frame
She waits, on fire her trembling frame--
Her friend Monsieur Finemouche the same,
Pray is it he? It is the same.
Another passed; 'twas just the same.
Her wolf-dog and her husband tame;
Of many an economic scheme;
And my romance's open theme
And then the stanzas of my theme
Who reads his visionary theme
Of touching lightly every theme.
He with an innocence extreme
Descends the bank with care extreme,
Who welcome guests with zeal extreme,
"My uncle's goodness is extreme,
Until the sleepless Breguet chime
Transported to our Russian clime.
And visit many a foreign clime,
On sunny days the glistening rime,
His footing on the treacherous rime
Destroyed the blossom of his prime.
Sledging, the snows, which at the time
For a protracted space of time.
And thus he spent eight years of time,
Her figure perfect grows with time!
Hurrah! it long ago was time!
It now to investigate is time,
Which falls in starry flakes below.How in the country pass this time?
By time
And may fall headlong any time.
Announcing to him dinner-time.
She is an angel! We sometime
Across her youth a shade had come,
Straight from their province had he come?"--
I am in love, my hour hath come!
Though to the Academy I come
When will my hour of freedom come!
In winter time would often come.
Nor shall the caterpillar come
At eventide would hither come,
He wakes--they with a letter come--
Triumphant with the answer come.
To take a hand at whist oft come:
Tiresome unto her hath become
All dark and silent hath become;
Callous to all on earth become--
And shorter had the days become.
His name: the tenderness of home
Yes! for our unpretending home,
As in her heart the thought sank home,
Long, long the hour had past when home
No longer through her former home;
Time was, two maidens from their home
The Princess N. will be at home
With his own pawn alas! his rook!Homeward returning, he at home
Tranquilly goes to sleep at home,
The bard his answer waits at home,
With better half as cumbersome;
An album, fly-leaf of the tome,
In the lone garden and the lane?
Oft staring through the window pane
Undeviating and insane
Struck Lenski dead--across the scene
But shall depict the touching scene
Pictures of the amusing scene,
Doth seem to him the festal scene.
Of the domains of the side-scene.
Sincerely loving him, Eugene
The PoetCanto The SecondThe village wherein yawned Eugene
Tattiana motionless abides.The strife grew furious and Eugene
Such were the musings of Eugene.
Adorned the apartment of Eugene,
."My second!" cried in turn Eugene,
All this was novel to Eugene.
He was in error; for Eugene
Could not eclipse her neighbour's light."And is it," meditates Eugene.
Who may he be? Is it Eugene?
And so departed. But Eugene,
She rose--departed. But Eugene
A true Childe Harold my Eugene
Between myself and my Eugene,
Our dear old aunt, Princess Helene,
As a poetic life serene,
And irrigate them with champagne;
Are turned upon her. All combine
He smiles, in laughter all combine;
Yet neither Virgil nor Racine
The master always used to sit."Departed Lenski here to dine
Behold the dames who once were fine
A single being: 'twas in fine
Admired his judgment, which was fine,
The sneers of critics superfine;
Clarissa, Julia, Delphine,--
And make a dark existence shine
The lamps illuminating shine;
He could in disputation shine
Tattiana, saucy Olga thine?"--
'Tis Heaven's will and I am thine.
The kennel or a kindred line,
Hath pictured in his gorgeous line
With many a snare their pathway line!
"Aline!"
Diminishes as years decline.
Do all things which to mirth incline.
Akulka who was once Celine,
Baptized Prascovia Pauline,
Corset and album and Pauline,
Condemn not weak Tattiana mine;
He was no fool, and Eugene mine,
A new Kaverine Eugene mine,
No other than Oneguine mine.
Well known unto Oneguine mine.
But, as I said, Zaretski mine
Of modern Russians the disease.Bouyanoff, wrathful cousin mine,
In your young days and also mine),
Where art thou? Come! pretensions mine
Please follow this way, lady mine,
Of my impassioned heroine.
Dreaming herself the heroine
Never upon my heroine
A tombstone, Aphrodite's shrine,
The choicest flowers of French cuisine,
Is it for long?"--"Ma chere cousine!"
Lest the world or her lord divine
Before the dregs they shall divine
Another bard with art divine
Long tortured by his lay divine,
I love them, O my dear Elvine,
About the crop of hay, the wine,
Give me just half a glass of wine--
Of the cup brimming o'er with wine--
With loud explosion, the bright wine
But that the eyes of every one
The sum of my existence gone
All to the grand saloon are gone--
To pass the night at home hath gone.
Can she have been a moment gone
Frosty the night; the heavens shone;
Whilst cheerily the embers shone,
That hero, though his merit shone,
On the steppes of Moldavia lone,
The river's bank. Tattiana lone
Forgotten in the village lone,
"Nurse, leave me. I would be alone.
Having for money's sake alone
Tranquil repose. Eugene alone
Of all the guests within his mind.Certainly not Eugene alone
When, sitting by his fire alone
'Twas these he read and these alone
To sigh and meditate alone:
Can hearty welcome give alone.
In horror for itself alone,
Undoubtedly, disdain alone
Maid whom my heart desires alone,
Good-night." Behold! she is alone!
Waiting his coming--his alone!
Moina recalls for this alone
Dies suddenly: of heirs alone
And in the frosty night alone
That mediocrity alone
Where, where, the trace of tears? None, none!
Though around honoured Priam's throne
In one great shout: she's mine! she's mine!"Mine!" cried Eugene with savage tone.
That like a friendly voice its tone
Said something in an undertone
She murmurs in an undertone
Lo! on the sleeping river borne,
But send your grandson before long."No answer all that day was borne.
A constant harping on one tune,
The nightingale trills forth her tune;
Of fashionable dames the foe,
With Martin Zadeka. In woe
The aged woman in her woe:
Dreaming perchance in weal or woe
Or quietly partake our woe.
E'en hopeless egoism's dark shape.
"Ah! long the world hath missed thy shape!
Could in romantic mantle drape
His book-shelf instantly doth drape
To whisper comfort, love and hope?
'Tis dreadful--ye agree, I hope--
Had bid her sigh for without hope--
In country solitude you mope,
'Tis said you are a misanthrope,
For a fictitious misanthrope,
A dangerous, gloomy misanthrope,
On horseback gallop o'er the steppe!
O Men, how very like ye are
Than one's own fascinating self.Here I remark all poets are
I ask, all ye who poets are,
His inner consciousness laid bare,
Through aspens, limes and birches bare,
I am acquainted with fresh care,
Tattiana's beauty, pale with care,
Gazed on him, called him. Useless care!
Albums magnificent which scare
Lenski at intervals would dare,
To cope with Ay no more I dare,
The vile seducer shall not dare
Though I confess I hardly dare
Or vainly 'mid luxurious fare
With Ozeroff was wont to share
And impiously should declare,
You with stern countenance declare
I cannot help it I declare,
None could her beautiful declare,
Doth his brow wretchedness declare
The crash of music, candles' glare
The riot of the world and glare
And the more surely we ensnare
What pleasures Hymen would prepare
Breakfast the busy cooks prepare,
If cleverly or not I prate.But, O ye tomes without compare,
Moscow's young Graces at her stare,
Tattiana's love was quite sincere,
Now I am fit for nothing here.
Enjoyeth peaceful slumber here_.
"Abandon hope for ever here!"
"He's here! Eugene is here!
Which in the elevated sphere
The moon in the blue atmosphere.
I promised!--Did I so?--Well, there!
And Eugene soon discovered there
Or suffering pride? Why is he there?
With all their progeny were there,
Alone the princess sitteth there,
The young Simeonova too there
It may be ye were born, or there
By liberties or loose or light.And yet the city's flower was there,
"The left? Why, what on earth is there?"--
And lo! he is already there!
Was born beside the Neva, where
He bends his course to Talon's, where
Faces which we meet everywhere
And be not in advance severe.
I yield the fruit of work severe.
Just as he entered. How severe!
If the choice in my power were,
And dark and drear the evenings were,
As if impossible it were
Still sovereigns of his spirit were,
Our misanthrope was full of ire,
Olga with trepidation dire.
Would haste in agitation dire
Oblivion of life's tempest dire,
And spouted it with lyric fire--
Nor sparkled with poetic fire,
Authors replete with sacred fire
Or bosom full of languid fire,--
The proud ones are not worth the fire
For our Automedons are fire
Stood as if struck by lightning fire.
Their privileged allurements fire
With our Oneguine doth aspire
Foeman or friend, I do aspire
Yet still apparently aspire
And that no longer could inspire.
He deemed his coming would inspire
Nor wit, nor did the same inspire
Whose tones Apollo's sons inspire,
Raged round him and of balked desire!
To mutter her concealed desire
A hidden train of wild desire.
All that perfection could desire;
All that a poet could desire,
He felt the laudable desire
This world. I do not praise desire,
So ardently did I desire
But Lenski, having no desire
Adieu! whate'er thou didst desire
At a great feast against desire,
Slowly exhausted by desire,
His constant soul could ever tire,
And our swift troikas never tire;
The wit of others to acquire.
Now buffoon, glutton, and a bore.
Within his mind Tattiana bore,
And brooding o'er the ills he bore,
Opened with care, and entering bore
With thee I conversed when I bore
Within my memory I bore
Tattiana, Russian to the core,
Or, as it were, the Freischutz' score
The Russian winter did adore
Whom doth thy plaintive Muse adore?
And the young girl appeared before
He was deceived. Just as before
And shut him in a lonely nook.He read as vainly as before,
Thou'lt suffer, dearest, but before,
They stir the heart as heretofore.
How oft to the Crimean shore
To help her to the other shore
Of the imperial Neva's shore.
The captives of the Salguir's shore.
Or by the ocean's rocky shore.
'Tis time to quit this weary shore
And thy protection I implore.
Society renounced once more.
With it may be a couple more;
With affectation,--nothing more.
Where Nereids murmur evermore,
Rooted unto the spot remained.As if against obstruction sore
A gust of passion never tore
Away her golden earrings tore;
Endowing us from out her store
As bees who leave their dainty store
Bouyanoff too, my cousin, wore
Now the sweet little shoes she wore,
Rogue and extortioner of yore,
"Who would have thought it? As of yore!
"But which, my dear?--In days of yore
As thou, great Homer, didst of yore,
A fragile bridge and insecure,
For who imposture can endure,
Hath gradually learnt to endure;
But competition I abjure
But deeming all this nonsense pure,
"Sit down. How funny, to be sure!
For long--for ever. To be sure
He will delight you, I am sure,
Then my companions young with pleasure
In history he took no pleasure,
Found out the secret how at pleasure
Yet still of anecdotes a treasure
And then she soon 'twixt work and leisure
In the unfettered hours of leisure
That my dishonour would ensure
Serious endeavours to assure
Happy who timely grew mature,
And after Albion's proud lyre
For ever with thy tattling lyre,
Ye need dissimulation base
Felled a calumniator base!
That a friend's arm in every case
For my wild garden and bookcase,--
Who tyrannizes us with ease,
Though he surveyed her at his ease,
Glides with a more luxurious ease;
But Tania's heart is not at ease,
Still the loud stamping doth not cease,
The damsel under escort place."Can I inspect the mansion, please?"
The journey in a sledge doth please,
With childlike lisp will lie to please.
Possession hath no power to please,
Napoleon tarried till it please
O epic Muse, my powers increase
To cool the cutlets' seething grease,
A very troublesome disease,
If seriously he hath disease;
In motley and amusing chase.
The curs away to kennel chase,
Her shaggy myrmidon in chase.
Monsieur clean out of doors they chase.
Not even a poetic phrase,
I say without poetic phrase,
Moscow! How much is in the phrase
Handbook of fashionable phrase
Address to you one single phrase
To russify the foreign phrase
Who every gesture, every phrase
Eugene would speak regarding these.
It matters not. Hope e'en to these
From careless stanzas such as these,
She would pronounce _a la Francaise_;
She mourned and to the moon would raise
And in her languid bosom raise
Of passion they so often raise.
How sweet a dream your memories raise!
And where the billows hoarsely raise
The curtain now they slowly raise.
To God eternal hymns of praise.
Away! and cease to ring their praise
As cyphers others to appraise,
Because he could not gourmandise
They growl a bit--they scandalise--
Crushing and a confusing noise;
But at her shriek ran forth with noise
Tired by the ball's incessant noise,
Engrave the ice with strident noise.
Could in a humble sphere despise,
When Eugene like a ghost did rise
A blood-bespattered shade would rise,
In column blue the smoke doth rise;
Oft upon friendly lips doth rise:
Yet sometimes banished hopes will rise
Late in the afternoon to rise,
The shopman and the pedlar rise
The crowd doth head and shoulders rise
Miraculously fair arise,
Where melancholy rocks arise
Those hellish phantoms. Peals arise
Of the night sentinels arise
Thus thou, Yazykoff, dost arise
The Larinas were since sunrise
He has returned, say in what guise?
Olga the tea must supervise--
He is a charming youth and wise.
"Is he the same or grown more wise?
The chief of the Chaldean wise,
Man--forty years long in this wise--
But now a question in this wise
Olga began to long likewise
Or else ,
With his exasperated sense,
May be the empire of the sense,
He well-nigh lost the use of sense,
Pervaded with much common sense.
And I admired their common sense
Reduced with effort unto sense,
Though now my love might be intense,
Inspired but weariness intense;
We hear with interest intense
Ladies in crowds around her close,
The windows whitened, shutters close--
Phials of crystal scents enclose.
A curious interest disclose
Malignant fury they disclose,
"Command me, darling, what you choose"--
But nowhere can she find repose,
Do agitate his late repose.
Deprive our schoolgirls of repose,
Ne'er trusted to the treacherous ace.When, wise at length, we seek repose
And where at last his bones repose
But better loved the soft repose
Her smile and maidenly repose,
The pine-torch, by her crackles bright.Already crisp hoar frosts impose
Years to light rhyme themselves oppose,
Furious he from the table rose;
Of thankless friends the circle rose,
(Readers expect the rhyme of _rose_,
He enters. High the cork arose
And the conviction soon arose,
Years have inclined me to stern prose,
As many dinners I rehearse,
Barking, songs, whistling, laughter coarse,
Too much I'm given to intersperse,
They met. Earth, water, prose and verse,
And also that my feeble verse--
Although we read him heaps of verse.
That for that matter in my verse
Or ice and flame, are not diverse
Round which revolves the universe.
Within his sledge the stiffened corse,
The speech of man and tramp of horse.
Detecting him the passing horse
Loud paws the earth each panting horse,
Most usually a Cossack horse
A fiery, yet well-broken horse,
Departed, ordered out his horse
In age the memory gets worse,
At womankind he growled a curse,
Existence would not make a curse,
Am I to go through the whole list?""How dull you are this morning, nurse!"
All visited him at first, of course;
A dinner, whimsical each course,
Snorts, and his rider bends his course
Oh, many a year hath run its course
Of friends the grateful intercourse--
Ye mothers also, caution use,
One instrument for his own use--
I once forgot for your sweet cause
I lift a warning voice because
The thirst for fame and man's applause,
The foaming Lenski would refuse,
Now I am ready to refuse.
Whose memory doth not refuse
But look you--ah! do not refuse."
With sudden flush her cheeks suffuse,
Poetic transport did infuse,
Ideas, desires and woes confuse
The monsters of the British Muse
Admirer of the peaceful Muse,
A mournful temper on his Muse.
By other thoughts be occupied.But I the products of my Muse,
Now for the first time I my Muse
But I must now employ my Muse
Incited by his stormy Muse
Now, as in a deserted house,
Then became busy with the house,
"What can be drearier than the house,
Received him freely at her house,
Besides the hobbies of a spouse
Night separated from her spouse,
So hearken, every worthy spouse,
Deplores a most unworthy spouse
I would your vigilance arouse,
The drum already doth arouse.
To my old nurse alone peruse,
But Olga would not such peruse.
Her steppe-like beauties I peruse
But what results? His eyes peruse
Even as Moscow, city proud.Confess, O ye who this peruse,
They long ago had held debate.
They would not solemnly debate
My famous portrait indicate
But this amusement delicate
I married--now, I supplicate--
The Lovelaces are out of date,
All this I know is out of date,
Told me to ask you. Ere that date
In fresh discourse. Such, love, thou art!He was most gay. The happy date
    Indifferent and sedate,
That is, he could elucidate
The story of thy life and fate.
Indifferent was her future fate.
On Lenski's matrimonial fate
Afar is borne by cruel fate,
She muses: "What was Olga's fate?
My spirit with such pangs before.Another time, so willed it Fate,
Condemned to exile dire by fate,
Will not, preserved by kindly Fate,
The peasant blessed his happy fate.
He nears a spacious mansion's gate,
The servants used to congregate
Tend not my heart to mitigate,
The hostess doth interrogate:
Both were expectant of the hate
"Your fashionable world I hate,
By the coarse wit of worldly hate;
With her they did associate,
Both were of passion satiate
Excruciate the heart and late
"He hath neglected us of late."--
The time for mystic strolls which late
That year the autumn season late
Shall surely, be it soon or late,
A promenade in twilight late
Sometime collected, shall relate
But if the truth I must relate,
"But tell me, nurse, can you relate
Desirous to annihilate
In charming fashion mutilate?
Lessons to give he understood!How soon he learnt to titillate
But round the hostess scintillate
Two hearts perchance were desolate
But now my mind is desolate,
Longtime was her heart desolate
A mild quotation to translate,
And you, O maids immaculate,
Squeeze tiny hands and osculate;
But I came not to adulate:
The world enough. Congratulate
And jests doth recapitulate.
Reserved, but not inanimate,
Conscious of death approximate,
Just at the hour we designate
And, joy of souls effeminate,
By many a lamp illuminate,
Sweet to behold him obstinate,
Of life or death predestinate.
I had found my predestinate,
And stupid censors passionate;
Perchance one more affectionate.
He marmot-like did hibernate,
And grasp a stirrup fortunate--
Must be pronounced unfortunate--
But if my lot unfortunate
'Tis fearful to anticipate
If but to lighten Time's dull rate,
By an _obrok's_ indulgent rate:
To-day, my friends, at any rate,
For evermore is separate.
The Larinas would celebrate,
To whom your hearts were consecrate,--
To whom we used to consecrate
That chosen heroes consecrate,
Her manners were deliberate,
Spoiled children most degenerate
But merely to exasperate;
You in the least commiserate
Or "Idol mio," and in the grate
His double sashes and his grate,
When o'er a glass with friends we prate
Shifts, tacks about, until they prate
The fatal bullet penetrate,
Where turmoil cannot penetrate,
Your frankness I shall compensate
With jealous fire resuscitate,
On thee I used to meditate!
Whom vice, if named, doth agitate
Rescue me from oblivion.Perchance some heart 'twill agitate,
The matter did not agitate,
Eternally to imitate
The secrets of the marriage state
By rank as settled by the State.
The sorrows of a single state.
These take their seats; the coach of state
I am not strong enough to state;
God knows! The very trace is lost.'Tis sweet the foe to aggravate
My heart of old would captivate.
My soul I cannot renovate--
The Fete
They have invited you this week.""Me?"--"Yes! It is Tattiana's fete
Wrapt in oblivion complete,
Without them Eugene is complete;
Encountered punishment complete,
Who the romance do not complete,
With tears, confused emotions, bliss,--With unanimity complete,
In bud of promise incomplete,
The weary way still incomplete,
Around my stanzas incomplete
With this unpleasant _tete-a-tete_,
Nor yet her lip compressed did bite.
The fervid poet would recite,
When poets lachrymose recite
Was certainly not erudite
Grew like a lily pure and white,
Though dazzling its effulgence white,
A bottle of a vintage white
Winter resigned her empire white,
Beneath the table-cloth of white,
Its ebullition foaming white
All so distinct, and all so white!
Nor sudden turned she red or white,
Their insolence and waistcoats white
Her house he enters, ghastly white,
The converse of the world polite,
Highways all Russia will unite
Happy who thereto can unite
The girl in marriage they unite.
Trembles upon my lips from spite,--
Nor even tears afford respite,
I have endured without respite.
A philosophic anchorite:
She wanders aimless as a sprite,
Who thrives this moment as I write,
But I must add to what I write
And madrigals I'm asked to write!
I would, my friends, inscriptions write,
And irritates the appetite.
At last is shrunk and withered quite?
By Olga stood, dejected quite
A Russian household simple quite,
Whilst Eugene condescending quite,
For I myself was thirteen quite;
Nor died nor lost his senses quite.
The vestibule finds empty quite--
Affection how did you requite?
Lenski his comrade did invite.
Fond declarations they invite
On innocent delights I dote,
I on my chosen hero dote;
On balls I madly used to dote,
'Twas then in valleys lone, remote,
With "vale" finish off a note;
Or the delivery of a note.
She heard of servant-maids the note,
Your innocent and charming note
A dagger, asterisk, or note
In spring-time, heard the cygnet's note
To purest love he tuned his note
The letter which Tattiana wrote.
When in simplicity ye wrote
And an elegiac poem wrote.
But Lenski madrigals ne'er wrote
So let us to the ball-room haste,
And the attendants called in haste.
His chair, plate, knife and fork in haste;
We must admit but little taste
All which in Paris eager taste,
More satisfaction to her taste.
And she despite herself would waste
And ease and fashionable waste,--
And education runs to waste,
This anchorite amid his waste
And exclamations interlaced."Princesse, mon ange!"--"Pachette!"--
Subscribed, _toujours a vous, Annette;_
And the cast-iron statuette
In the beginning, cold and mute,
From whose analysis minute
Whilst homeward by the nearest route
My country's honour and repute
None could a trace of that impute,
Her all in all did constitute;
A wild enthusiastic tongue,
From her my lips shall learn the tongue
Did they not all the Russian tongue
Poltroons and men of slanderous tongue,
Oneguine knew enough, the rogue
Latin is just now not in vogue,
Her locks were of a golden hue,
Her eyes were of cerulean blue,
Like smoke athwart the heaven blue;
The heavens shone in deeper blue,
He racked his brains to find its clue
"Alas! my friend, no revenue!"
His vanity first let us pique
Thou also, my ideal true,
Ah! it may be, affection true
'Tis time to marry her, 'tis true,
"Then, in the country, is't not true?
No novelty--is it not true?--
I did not please you. Why pursue
For ever your Tattiana leave.
Without the faintest trace to leave
And all without her husband's leave.
But now our hero we must leave
My mournful fate in verse to weave,
Into delicious bondage gave
Antiquity no pleasure gave,
But promise of our meeting gave,
Was it not so?--for thee I gave,
And, by the light the moonbeams gave,
A first success light pinions gave,
The prejudices all men have,
At his pale brow a shot to have,
As thoughts which gentle maidens have,
Tell me at once what wilt thou have?
Her shoulders, breast and face to lave--
My heroine, Tattiana dear.Vladimir, hourly more a slave
Charming with grave simplicity.He sang of love--to love a slave.
To shallow sentiment a slave!
But where Melpomene doth rave
The moderns of the ancients rave--
A prudent man like you and brave
The fatal secrets of the grave,
And blest me, sinking to the grave.
My guardian angel to the grave.
For him an honourable grave,
Lament, embrace upon that grave.
The Lord deliver her and save!
And thy inebriating wave
And her bespangled robe doth wave
Thus to assassinate the eve?"--
But my Oneguine the whole eve
To mention the foregoing eve,
He called upon me Christmas Eve--
Shrill sang the _samovar_ at eve,
To jest as he had done last eve,
Not the young timid maid, believe,
These are your relatives, believe:
To standards in which we believe?
Beside his Olga doth he grieve,
When angry beat her maids, I grieve,
Just at a moment which I grieve
A timid, shrinking love to grieve.
I love you--to what end deceive?--
That we by cant ourselves deceive,
Where is he who doth not deceive?
And that too often we receive
What I by relatives conceive?
"Not at all."--"That I can't conceive!
In clouds of steam above perceive.
To me he would his Olga give,
Time without me will lessons give,
Of "comme il faut." Shishkoff, forgive!
Would whisper: shall I so long live?"--
So meantime let him joyous live
Depart in peace and friendly live?
But I await thee: scarce alive
The most industrious man alive
And our successors soon shall drive
Mutual destruction to contrive.
And yet he in your cause would strive
When that time comes, a poem I'll strive
What boots it with the age to strive?
Applause, the people's donative.
I can't translate the adjective.
There our Katenine did revive
My heart with but one look revive;
Along the hall, and high above
That guests approach: and when above
The moon, the lamp of heaven above,
None, be my witness Heaven above!
By the decree of Mighty Jove,
And enmity and hope and love--
O Spring, thou chosen time of love!
Farewell! thou golden days of love!
The all-entrancing joys of love--
To swagger as the art of love,
And what resulted? Drunk with love,
I love you with a brother's love,
Extended--haunt which Dryads love.
By absence who hath chilled his love,
With tears which secret sufferers love--
The malady of hopeless love
This lot in life with stern decree?"Ideas and time ne'er backward move;
My spirit and my blood doth move,
Whom jealous transport cannot move,
Maidens before her meekly move
And in the Summer Garden rove.
At morn, hand clasped in hand, they rove
Thus mused a madcap young, who drove
'Twas then he loved the tangled grove
A thick immense neglected grove
Around the meadow and the grove.
Gently for pranks he would reprove
If Olga smilingly approve,
Time was when cold seduction strove
Young ladies, if ye ever strove
Vexation? Vanity? or strove
The blood boiled and the passions strove.
Lo! the prim cat upon the stove
To strike imagination serve.
Desire to rule ye may observe
Polite demeanour to preserve,
Young ladies in a vasty curve,
And supper. In the country we
Him who inspired both love and awe,
With footsteps tremulous with awe
Striking the intellect with awe
But ye, O happy husbands, ye
Whither along them doth he pelt?Oneguine whither gallops? Ye
"Ye peaceful valleys all, good-bye!
Now we must separate. Good-bye!
When the hour came to bid good-bye--
To bid the gentlefolk good-bye.
His hand, and fell. His clouded eye
To arm the tongue and e'en the eye,
Walking? The landscape tires the eye
Upon your daughters keep an eye,
And reads with rapid eager eye
To raise his pistol to his eye,
Tattiana gazed with curious eye
I've scanned it with a jealous eye,
And Lenski, closing his left eye,
The verst posts catch the vacant eye
The cynosure of every eye.
Whose brain no fond illusions daze,
On iron bridges we shall gaze
On everything around her gaze,
Looks upon all with absent gaze
Tattiana gently led them there.And long her eyes as through a haze
Extinguished ashes do not blaze--
No, never in the early blaze
On pit, stalls, boxes, brightly blaze,
"But," cried Zaretski in amaze,
Madman, wilt thou from memory raze
Do ye of spring the blossoms graze?
Still they blow noses, cough, and sneeze,
Let not the poet's spirit freeze,
Him a disquietude did seize,
A hand of ice appeared to seize
Nor the first snow of winter seize
The hero we immortalize.
Who now could fail to recognize
Confront thy fated torturer!Love's pangs Tattiana agonize.
Gifts such as these alone could prize,
Having lost all in life we prize.
The calm existence which I prize
A bristly bear of monstrous size!
They made him feel inclined to doze;
Aside she casts her veil of gauze
And who is not a tiresome thief?
And honestly 'tis my belief
Is ever ready with relief,
This great discovery relief
With deeper woe than others' grief.
By Heaven in lieu of happiness.Habit alleviates the grief
Who in the agony of grief
To whom are our misfortunes grief
Our union would produce but grief.
                    Dmitrieff
Who arrived lately from Tamboff,
    Griboyedoff
Loud snores the cumbrous Poustiakoff
Gvozdine, Bouyanoff, Petoushkoff
The family of Kharlikoff,
But stop! I will present thee, if
To write of any other elf
Then dressed himself...
Stood as estranged from all aloof,
Even beneath her parents' roof
Came with Monsieur Triquet, a prig,
In spectacles and chestnut wig.
The language of her girlish pleading
Page after page continued reading,
However, Tania's letter reading,
Whom you in slumber may have seen."But she, her sister never heeding,
Istomina the nimbly-bounding;
Forth from the crowd of nymphs surrounding
Espy him approaching,
Oneguine's letter!"--"Ah! the thing!
Farthingales, patches, were the thing,
I guard it as a holy thing,
I have it. Lo! the very thing!
Basins and jugs--well! everything
Shone pungent Satire's dauntless king,
And an old gent the poet marking
Also one Viazemski, remarking
As butterflies to blossoms cling.
But why are your cheeks whitening?"
I'm o'er it ever pondering.
The world is ever altering!
And chattering loud sit down to dine.Ceased for a space all chattering.
Plates, knives and forks are clattering
Or, parable more flattering,
Amidst successes flattering
To our Tattiana conquering,
Upon the meadows showering,
Some other long-departed Spring,
Ye golden days of my young spring?
Free, in the blossom of his spring,
In life domestic see a string
Of Volga fishermen doth sing,
That I forget not whom I sing.
Then the old dames in chorus sing,
Behold! orthography despising,
Rousseau, I would remark in passing,
Eloquent raver all-surpassing,--
At last my father gave his blessing,
Her suit before my parents pressing:
Attentive to the heart's first beating,
Follow up love--a secret meeting
To happiness contributing.
Wafted upon poetic wing,
The tiresome man, her value knowing,
Of pictures painful harrowing,
Yet curses on his fate bestowing,
And Kniajnine, apt at copying.
Metreless verses recognizing
Visions, now sad, now grateful, long
Glittered in a perspective long,
She gazed--a cue, forgotten long,
And grant success to labour long;
He thought to write, but labour long
The lively trash of stories long
Weeping they loosed my tresses long
The nightingale there all night long,
"_The date, his fleeting years how long--
Existence calmly sped along,
Who following Petrarch move along
A riding whip. She strolls along.
The days which to your youth belong?
Terpsichore alone among
And thus he never fell among
And wild festivities among
And oft at eventide a throng
Thus haughty, careless in her tone?He quits the fashionable throng
To whom amongst the jealous throng
"Nothing, good nurse, there's nothing wrong,
With little knowledge and that wrong
Repose in peace, thou child of song_."
She brought with her the gift of song.
With dance and with song.
And led me off to church with song."
Either with him or thee in song,
Spring's paramour, pours forth her song
A double force unto their song
Of maids dost thou inscribe thy song?
Let me explain that in my song
Black curls which to his shoulders hung.
Enough! my pack is now unslung--
Since I beheld Eugene and young
"I celebrate a comrade young
Her sisterhood delights the young
Bard of the Finnish maiden young.
Without disgust we look upon?Happy he who in youth was young,
Bevies of treacherous maidens young;
His harp beneath that sky had rung
He who life's frosts which early wrung
Of love which whilom Petrarch sung.
Where sometime Goethe, Schiller sung,
The words _bear, bridge, fir, darkness, bog,
Raven, snowstorm, tempest, fog,
His entrance with Oneguine. "Ah!
Make up your mind to go there."--"Ah!
For Moscow fops and Circes each
The native Russian tongue impeach?
And thoughtlessness to woe might lead."Thus did our friend Oneguine preach:
How meekly then I heard you preach--
To-day it is my turn to teach.
Was the old and forgotten coach;
Britzka, kibitka, or in coach.
Alas! with merited reproach.
The neighbours come, in sledge approach,
But ultimately doth approach.
Or to disturb my dreams approach
Her antiquated mode of speech,
Did not their lips with foreign speech
Attentive listened to his speech,
Many an ancient legend which
In monsters and fair dames was rich;
Would she the canvas tight enrich
Who to surrender did not blench
Drunk as a fly; and thus the French
But home his body to despatch
With gay design and silken stitch.
Ever absorbed a maid so much:
I formerly admired her much
Nor the _Journal des Modes_, I vouch,
No coquetry was there, I vouch--
You'll find her portrait there, I vouch;
Society endures not such!
'Tis dark. He seats him in a sleigh,
Ye shadows of a life more high,
My doom has been pronounced on high,
With great delight.--O God on high!
"I call to witness God on high--"
Sails her allotted course on high,
And many a caravan on high
The tiny sun shone less on high
Of churches, gardens, belfries high
Ye well-known mountain summits high,
Careless of fame his spirit high
And from the misty woodland nigh
And golden Autumn draweth nigh,
With effort she restrains. Well nigh
But scarce had turned the corner nigh,
List! the snow crunches--he draws nigh!
Good governs all! The hour draws nigh
When separation's hour drew nigh,
A sportsman who in covert lies.But finally she heaves a sigh,
And, heaving a regretful sigh,
Nor tender glance nor amorous sigh
Heaved an involuntary sigh
There is no wreath upon the bough:
In scenes like these it may be though,
How dark the night is getting though!
His breast was riddled through and through,
And the eternal lorgnette through
To guess how you the eve pull through."--
My venerated reader, oh!
They sent their compliments--but oh!
Spurs of the Cavalier Guard clash,
Full many a glance like lightning flash,
And pressed her hand--the crimson blush
Some madrigal not worth a rush,
He lies, upon his forehead death,
Was sleeping then a sleep like death;
Above the humble urn of death.
_Affectionately yours till death_.
Or counting on his uncle's death
Who early died a gallant death_,"
When motionless your gaze beneath
"_Vladimir Lenski lies beneath,
Two hearts, a torch, of flowers a wreath,
Would agitate a mystic wreath
You o'er your wine insulted hath--
Grew brighter still. But Lenski hath
But lo! his braggart neighbour hath
Seen all, beside himself with wrath,
Impatient, boiling o'er with wrath,
Zaretski bit his lip in wrath,
Or even overcome by wrath
But to Vladimir Eugene saith:
Without the ken of parents both,
What doth he act? Is it Melmoth,
Beneath his head the pillow smooth,
I must resign myself, in sooth;
But memory like a serpent's tooth
The dusty chronicles of earth
And thou shalt taste the joys of earth.
To dire contentment shall give birth
He salutary rules poured forth?
"Drive on!" the cheerful cry goes forth,
Behold! green tables are brought forth,
Full many a foolish prank brought forth;
By the fine silver of the north.
For him were but of little worth,
Impelled by zeal for moral worth,
The last poor obol I was worth--
Ombre, and whist all others worth:
Where youth ?
Restrained the impulses of youth;
To the impressions of our youth,
My frivolous and jolly youth.
Found the ideal of my youth,
But, knowing not the actual truth,
Thee only would I choose, in truth,
In that morass where you and I
But were it not immoral I
"Not in the least, assured am I!"--
"My darling, growing old am I!
Imagine! Here alone am I!
Another! to none other I
But with her elder sister I
But who abandon it--as I
Enough! with tranquil spirit I
In former years thus did not I
            Baratynski
O my Svetlana.'--Joukovski
The brilliant Nina Voronskoi,
Mutual repulsion and ennui,
His wadded coat and cap with peak;
But stay! A dolt am I who speak!
To listen to the words you speak,
Vows matrimonial to break,
A Russian in Childe Harold's cloak,
Openly or 'neath decent cloak.
All hail! my good old friend Bordeaux!The fire sinks low. An ashy cloak
And the sagacious Triquet back
Himself transformed into a hack;
Passes the torrent But alack!
Placed in a sledge his terrier black,
In truth he had the happy trick
Whose memories make the heart beat quick
Tattiana blushed, her heart beat quick--
And he had made her heart beat quick!
He loved the simpleton to mock,
The artful prisoner should seek
And thus secures the prey we seek.
Autocrat of the drawing-room seek?
Or, it may be, we inly seek,
At times, if only once a week,
His Hellespont from bank to bank,
He enters the saloon. 'Tis blank!
And then a cup of coffee drank,
A door he opens. But why shrank
Till out of breath upon a seatShe sank.--
He's a freemason, so we think.
An oval countenance and pink,
Yon silly moon upon the brink
Alone he doth his claret drink,
Vladimir closes up his book,
Was uttered, and the cabin shook--
His fist Oneguine fiercely shook
Into accounts would sometimes look,
But somehow there shone in his look
How bright and tender was his look,
To flight before her radiant look,
Calling to mind your icy look
The little solitary nook
His course unto the running brook.
Which crushing dignity must brook!
Where shining runs the tiny brook,
'Tis here he slept, his coffee took,
And flowed harmoniously. He took
How thoroughly her part she took!
To ask her name the trouble took.
And clad in airy costume took
An honourable course ye took,
Jealousy and vexation took
Caught him and by the collar took
Till absently Vladimir took
The shepherd plaits his shoe of bark,
But trembling on the mirror dark
A simple tombstone hath been set.There, when the rains of spring we mark
The sad moon only could remark.
'Tis a Madonna of Vandyk,
Assemblies oligarchical
They deem her somewhat finical,
Of a heart cold and cynical?
Ye men of fashion cynical,
And female tears hysterical,
Already he grew phthisical.
Harmless, but quite nonsensical.
Economy political,
A fop, in dress pedantical.
And cannot anything conceal,
Of untold gain she must conceal,
When the mazurka used to peal,
In vain my anxious eyes appeal;
What sad emotions o'er me steal
What will the coming dawn reveal?
For promises her feet reveal
Outlandish and provincial,
Her glance how wild yet genial!
And with gray hair ambrosial
Lo! with what pride celestial
Nought of its charms original
Yet suffering emotional
He deemed of human life the goal
The path which leads to glory's goal.
And others rise ephemeral!
The eyes of a grave general.
Behind her a grave general.
A ball in Peter's capital,
In one thing really did excel.
The love, hate, sorrow, joy, we feel.
When first upon my cheek I feel
The parquet cracked beneath the heel,
Combs of all sizes, files of steel,
On him spleen mounted sentinel
To such--delightful to repel.
Lifts not her eyes which swimming fail.
Though of romance therein I fail
With eye precise and without fail.
In time I'll give ye without fail
Winter's approach she doth not hail
The sharp incisions of his nail,
Within its wave the sounding pail,
She runs, the bear upon her trail,
Across the gloom of heaven would sail
Sorrow to counterfeit and wail--
Herds low, and under night's dark veil
The rigour of cold pride and all
Lofty the chambers one and all,
Exclaiming, "We must change 'em all!
For long he had endured them all.
Nor years of separation all
Bedding is laid out and to all
Indifferent he became to all,
Came forth in all her magic sheen.The snow descends and buries all,
Her sentimental verses all,
The twilight pale which softens all,
'Tis now the season! Idlers all,
Morality taught scarce at all;
They shout and no one lists at all.
Was not surprised thereby at all.
He knits his brows--'tis silent all.
God grant I meet not at a ball
Another tribune of the ball
To slay himself with blade or ball,
Nor study, banquet, rout nor ball
Forgot the world, the noisy ball,
Yet as a rule their talk I call
She soon forgot, began to call
Was that which we are wont to call
So, when he came next day to call,
He drinks, all drink and loudly call;
Enamoured at her feet to fall.
And finally he deigns let fall
They blossom, ripen and they fall
A whisper runs along the hall,
Assigned a lodging, from the hall
Crush and confusion in the hall,
Some future ignoramus shall
A white and undulating pall
I envied sore the billows tall,
Lord Byron's portrait on the wall
Silk tapestry upon the wall,
Shouts, laughter, jamming 'gainst the wall,
Hung like a print against the wall,
Long in this fashionable cell
Lenski, unhappy victim, fell,
For consecrate to me he fell
The lady's glance upon him fell--
Himself just like a greenhorn fell.
The inscription o'er the gates of Hell
Repentance wields not now her spell
Of languor and of love did tell
'Twas not the first time, I can tell
For your instruction here to tell
The steward sent a note to tell
And crossed with trembling hand the maid."I am in love," her whispers tell
I am--in love--you know--don't tell!"
Unto our neighbour. Mind you tell--
But lo! the friends to chat commence."How are our neighbours fair, pray tell,
Who from two years to thirty tell;
To take this letter to O-- Well!
At thirty who was married well,
A worthy object 'tis, and well
And think: here lies who loved me well,
"The family are all quite well--
Are all your relatives quite well?
How thy hands burn!"--"Dear nurse, I'm well.
Ye groves whose depths I know so well,
Scissors both straight and curved as well,
His relative and friend as well.
And gallicisms I love as well
And sometimes into snares as well
This separated us as well--
"My heart's delight, thou art not well."--
Your heart possesses, I know well,
Oneguine acted very well
I have no leisure here to dwell,
Ennui can in the country dwell
Thou beauteous sky above, farewell!
And rest from bygone days of strife.But pause! Thou calm retreats, farewell,
And wished to say to him farewell.
Petoushkoff, the provincial swell;
At twenty who was prig or swell,
"Boredom, my friend, behold the ill--"
"'Tis habit, Lenski."--"Is your ill
My unpretending page shall fill,
Of thy delights I drank my fill,
Proceeds, until she from a hill
And wisely gallops to the hill.
The pervert world with icy chill
Let us proceed unto a rill,
By the old lime-tree or the rill,
'Tis now the hillock now the rill
To listen to the rippling rill.
A garden by a shining rill.
An hour passed by--another--till,
His heart reciprocated still
The coach before a house stood still.
Domestic life attracts me still,
"How now, Oneguine, yawning still?"--
Or couplets more ingenious still;
Seeks, winding amid meadows still,
To wander through the meadows still,
With tumult or contentment still
You fall in love again. But still--
Time was, the poet's tender quill
No more at dawn the shepherd will
Thus a guest with composure will
To stay the maid against her will.
'Tis evidently Heaven's will
As in their turn the seasons roll.
Indites an inconsiderate scroll
Perchance they laurels also cull--
Rings from a dish of water full
Perched on a goose's neck a skull
In order due the maidens pull;
You know that I am now a fool--
At eighteen not to play the fool!
He was a dear delightful fool--
He used to hate--and was no fool--
A nursling yet for Hope to school.
Conventionality's dull tool--
Learn to possess more self-control.
"Monsieur l'Abbe" a starving Gaul,
A shape half cat and half a crane.Yet ghastlier, yet more wonderful,
And Eugene ever in her soul
Would soothe the doubtings of his soul,
And now philanthropy his soul,
Now don't be cross with me, my soul,
Of your perfections in my soul,
But my Tattiana, on my soul,
They laugh, they argue, and they bawl,
A schoolmaster in yellow shawl
A love epistle he doth scrawl.
He a polite reply doth scrawl.
Enchanted by the moon's pale beam.
Deep in our mother Earth's chill breast!"Tattiana's eyes with tender gleam
And a boy handed round the cream.
The memory of the bard, a dream,
But Tania just as in a dream
Guards fondly hope's uncertain dream.
Whilst all creation seemed to dream
Eugene at first began to dream,
The story of his young love's dream,
To the fair object of his dream,
I will descant on love's sweet dream,
But sweeter in a midnight dream
Of happy meetings thou shalt dream,
E'en from her cradle's earliest dream,
All this may be an empty dream,
Tattiana in a misty dream,
Thou'lt quaff love's sweet envenomed stream,
Thinking to float upon the stream,
The fragrant tea in darkling stream,
Of rural life the sluggish stream;
Will be absorbed by Lethe's stream;
Perish absorbed by Lethe's stream.
Our youthful wanderer should roam.
Awaiting on the shore I roam
A wish from place to place to roam,
Back to his regiment must roam.
'Twould serve ye in an epigram--
And a malicious epigram
And love's delicious diadem
Merciful God, what will he deem?"
Torquato Tasso's strains I deem.
'Tis something of this sort I deem.
Providence otherwise may deem--
Of priceless value all things seem
With mute appeal to ask they seem--
He hath acquired the world's esteem
But, as he never opened them,
In three weeks would arrive for them;
The foes, as yet not taking aim,
And true, his pistol's faultless aim
Is ever ready to proclaim
With such a perversity proclaim.
Pink as Palm Sunday cherubim,
In winter by its blank and dim
Cast upwards then her eyeballs dim
And the lime alley's twilight dim
Of what not, and of distant dim,
But could not. Then she questioned him:--
Silent, oracular ye'd see him
Dared calmly cleanse his nails 'fore him,
Its driver seated on the rim
From first to last page to the rim.
He sang of separation grim,
Motionless, mute, tight-laced and trim.
A country damsel's album trim,
In scarlet sash and sheepskin trim;
Could not conceive how serious Grimm
In some a willing martyrdom.
And lonely through the forest creeps.""Is she in love?" quoth one. "With whom?
She waited for--I don't know whom!
Petoushkoff met the selfsame doom.
Thus age approached, the common doom,
The fountain brawls, sweetbriers bloom,
Perish when half disclosed its bloom!"--
Her health, life's sweetness and its bloom,
Oh! on the fields of life how bloom
Was the sad poet filled with gloom,
Had filled her youthful breast with gloom,
The forests in mysterious gloom
This is my master's sitting-room.
All slumber. In the drawing-room
"Had he been long here, and where from?
And leans upon the monster's arm,
She nerves herself from her alarm
The amatory science warm,
In thy imagination warm,
Fantastic images shall swarm
Laid down his life of sun and storm
A Russian poem's mechanism
Distinctly not its mechanism.
And I discerned through Fancy's prism
Indeed, by force of magnetism
He "Benedetta" used to hum,
How like a poet was my chum
He had excepted from the ban:
Dressing as quickly as he can,
Meantime I'll finish whilst I can
Romances three, in which ye scan
'Twas plain--an oaken floor ye scan,
A new acquaintance we must scan.
A trifle pale, a trifle lean,
Oneguine slowly then began
Interrogation to denote.And my Tattiana now began
Zaretski, village mechanician,
Suitable for this semi-Russian.
To write in cantos twenty-five.I've thought well o'er the general plan,
Friends of Liudmila and Ruslan,
Vladimir's property, a man
"How came you then to wed a man?"--
At last became a ruined man.
More clearly, God be praised, the man,
Let me present ye to the man,
Long ceased to be a reading man,
_Demetrius Larine, sinful man,
Portrayed contemporary man
Eugene directs the trusty man
He was an honest gentleman,
Four deadly paces do they span;
I feel, allotted is my span;
Deep into debt his father ran;
"Why, as God ordered! My Ivan
Two cupboards, table, soft divan,
But when Tattiana's hand had ta'en
And satisfied with vengeance ta'en.
A friendly hand thy life hath ta'en!
Away, Tattiana, hath been ta'en.
But scarce had maids their saucers ta'en
Which never have existed, e'en
Perchance upon the Neva e'en
Become a faithful wife and e'en
"Come," she cried, "sister, tell me e'en
My joy in youth was fleeting e'en
It blew: it howled: till winter e'en
Nor precepts sage nor pictures e'en,
Portray the solitary den
In her friends' albums, time had been,
There friends of pure delight had been
Assuredly should not have been
Its passions and its modes of thought.The butt of scandal having been,
Had a deluded victim been
A fond and careful mother been.
A substitute for lamps we hail!Obedient she had ever been
And fields my joys have ever been;
Repose from labour, satire keen,
What a storm of emotions keen
Their looks alone produce the spleen.
Was nothing but the British spleen
The lonely mansion-house to screen
Upon a bunch of lovage green;
In springtime on the meadows green,
But plainer girls they oft had seen.
To this arrangement can be seen,
Similar dames ye may have seen.
From gales a hill behind was seen;
Before him red roast beef is seen
"Oh! how our years are vanishing!"But nothing changed in them is seen,
The torment born of crime unseen,
How! from the waste of steppes unseen,"--
In little maidens of thirteen?
In bullets, sabres, and in fight.His malady, whose cause I ween
Writ in my honour now and then--
Her husband was a bridegroom then,
"Oneguine, I was younger then,
His friendship I acquired just then;
The cold reply with gloomy mien
Approach not to hearken
The tale of these romantic men;
To pass with reasonable men
Amid submissive herds of men
Whom, as the custom is of men,
With taffety instead of crape.Having abjured the haunts of men,
And isolated from all men,
So inaccessible to men,
Is no more cherished amongst men.
Where is the outlaw, banned by men,
The poet fell; already men
_E sempre bene_, gentlemen!
Yawning betook him to a pen.
I know that Parny's tender pen
Of serfs the farewell wail have given.
Another his betrothed was given;
The imagination to enliven
Nags eighteen to the door are driven.
By sympathy I have been driven.
The memory of the bard was driven
Oneguine was a citizen
How deftly could he transport feign!
An exile from their troublous reign,
Olga and Tania led. Malign,
How bitterly he would malign,
With roses, caps and looks malign;
Dreading the world's remarks malign,
And viewed the door with cunning eye.All bustle when he makes a sign:
Men opposite. The cross they sign
Landscapes thereon he would design,
At times talk nonsense with design;
But boldly I myself resign:
My heart's allegiance can resign,
My gratitude do not disdain,
To crush me with a just disdain.
Listen to me without disdain.
And she to whom my lyre would fain,
A dwarf adorned with tail, again
Dressed him, undressed, and dressed again?
Should dearly like a dance again.
Shall I behold thee once again?"--
But to the garden once again
The youthful lover once again
Oneguine, bored to death again,
Oneguine--take him up again--
That until Christmas comes again
Of love again, and yet again;
A maid hath oft, may yet again
And agitate my heart again;
Or if he meant to flirt again,
It wakens in my breast again.
Tattiana courage doth regain
By an avowal just as plain.
He there is master--that is plain;
Zaretski rose, nor would explain,
Without disguise ourselves explain.
Detest him for a brother slain?
Alas! the youthful lover slain,
By whom the youthful bard was slain?"--
Who selfishly unmoved remain
Can lower depths beyond remain?
As deaf and silly doth remain,
He obstinately will remain,
But, that life longer may remain,
Where, where, remorse, compassion, pain?
And gave himself but little pain
And thus it is 'twould cause me pain
Me now, inflict upon me pain?--
And an habitual sense of pain;
Spare yourself unavailing pain
"My darling child, thou art in pain.--
I know not if his heart felt pain
And, though a plucky scatterbrain,
Kibitkas three, the accustomed train,
The dream left terror in its train.
The bard's enthusiastic strain,
Of bassoons and of flutes the strain.
After the wedded couple strain;
Yet dares not, dedicate its strain,
A ring she heard the ancient strain:
Or e'en the "Demon" of my strain.
Oh, how her lips compressed restrain
Behold, my sobs I scarce restrain--"
Tania the meaning would obtain
A case of books he doth obtain--
I loved you--what did I obtain?
My light productions to retain,
Although her book did not contain
The household property contain:
His daughter's book to ascertain
Pair after pair the race sustain.
Lenski the stroke could not sustain,
And distance interposed in vain,
Still hopes, endeavours, though in vain.
He reads at random, reads in vain.
And far removed from rumour vain;
I've wasted in amusements vain,
Cease the pursuit of shadows vain,
Wherein we lately left the twain.
And galloped home. But pistols twain,
The converse of our hermits twain,
To raise a clamour and a din:
In solitude or worldly din,
Three tears they dropt with humble mein
Ere conversation could begin,
But by degrees the crowd begin
For God's sake, Lenski, don't begin!
With words of foreign origin
The pall of night was growing thin,
Still everywhere, without, within,
At morn an icy bath within
He heard his soul's complaint within,
Where--"--"What! another eclogue spin?
Zaretski with a knowing grin,
Pardon I ask for such a sin--
Until her powers of running fail.She sank upon the snow. But Bruin
In books he saw nought to condemn
The sharp flint, screwed securely on,
"Here, he resides with Simeon.
A canine face with horns thereon,
And that unrivalled paragon,
And gossip of the town and fashion
Agreed! but then the whirl of fashion,
The torrent of opinion,
Behold! the world's opinion!
Recent instructions of its mother.But Tania ne'er displayed a passion
The natural fickleness of passion,
The youthful poet's fond confession.
Shall abdicate the bard's profession,
My friends, what means this odd digression?
With quite a lachrymose expression
He enters: rapidly discussion
Who without more prevarication
We all of us of education
Oneguine went with trepidation
Tattiana saw with trepidation
Cast down his eyes in trepidation
But Eugene, hating litigation
With inexact pronunciation
And tears of reconciliation:
Must now my stanzas occupy.Tattiana was her appellation.
Although it will not bear translation,
The God of Love is after you!A coquette loves by calculation,
Upon her cheek by adulation
Killed! at this dreadful exclamation
Not high in general estimation;
Enhances love in estimation
And hot with jealous indignation,
And sulked in silent indignation;
Of such a dread hallucination.
Invigorate imagination
Long time her young imagination
Original imagination,
She did not think "procrastination
Of foreign whims the impersonation--
Triumphant by anticipation,
Their Jealousy and separation
The fair of the next generation,
Whose glance reflecting inspiration
And eye which gleams with inspiration--
And thou, youth's early inspiration,
The idols of their adoration
In pages of a love narration
The hero is of my narration!
The poet's fervid conversation
Introduce verse in conversation.
A charm with it in conversation.
Without constraint in conversation
Not knowing its interpretation,
Alone within his habitation
A Vampire fond of meditation,
An innate love of meditation,
And buried deep in meditation,
As formerly much agitation.
And long internal agitation
And marking Tania's agitation,
Which is he? or an imitation,
A love which knew no limitation,
Thy meditative incantation--
Thus, praised be God! a reputation
Amid a serious disputation,
Seeing in this no deprivation,
To the sarcastic observation,
By what idea or observation
With intellect and strong volition
Meantime Oneguine's apparition
Lenski the foeman's apparition
Quite a sensation; the position
My very latest composition!
And a determined disposition,
For journalistic deglutition
The same unmoved oblivion
Was worthy of that old baboon,
Beneath the silver of the moon
Behind the mountain sank the moon.
And bends her mirror on the moon,
Tattiana gazes on the moon,
'Tis silent--on her shines the moon--
And now 'tis night, the guardian moon
Well! just as she was yesterday."Why did you leave last night so soon?"
Submissive as if in a swoon,
His wife was also mad upon
Our fathers used to dote upon;
A lancer her soul dotes upon:
His head sinks slowly, rests upon
His spirit was intent upon.
Still for ever fare thee well.'--Byron
Herself not knowing well the reason,
The counsel good and full of reason,
And the cold beauties of the season:
To visit Moscow in the season.
The works of Mr. Richardson.She was thus fond of Richardson
The sleep-compelling Grandison,
Or that adoring Grandison
Was certainly no Grandison.
Cousin, rememb'rest Grandison?"
Sailed silently in unison--
There an imperious skeleton;
My verses, kindly meant, would earn
To ask forgiveness seemed to yearn;
To write his forefathers to warn
He eyed her with a fond concern,
Tattiana--thus the sex is born.--
Viewed them with not a little scorn,
Silvers the brook; the shepherd's horn
A jolly song and distant horn;
Looms gray behind the mist and morn
Pale as a ghost and dressed since morn
And modest, cheerful as the morn,
Which 'neath her pillow lay till morn.
And sallied forth one brilliant morn--
Of the sun glisten; muddy, worn,
Sweet as the kiss of lovers sworn.
Men will forget me, but my urn
Bright day will then begin to burn,
Perchance you also soon may burn,
My wretched Lenski's fate I mourn,
Do we alone our losses mourn
Then to some gallant in your turn
Or, heedless of the leaves' return
To visit, lovely maid, return,
Delighted glances in return;
Have entered never to return.
A load of care upon the maid."But lo! forth from the valleys dun
To freeze his finger hath begun,
Yonder the household lad doth run,
Swift following in her wake, the sun,"
Time was, the breath of early dawn
Hung on a pine branch earthward drawn
As when the tempest's veil is drawn
In silence shall I sit and yawn
There is no path; the storm hath strewn
Hopeless are all the first, I own,
On raptures, sorrows not her own,
And town and friends forgotten quite.This northern summer of our own,
When will the devil take his own!"
Impelled to union with his own
Far from his Italy--his own.
Troy's sages should in concert own
He left _you_ first, and I must own
Must visit them. Come! you must own,
The untutored spirit's pangs calmed down
Mushrooms for winter salted down,
Their branches by the snow bowed down.
And on the footstool sitting down
And the fair sex as light as down!
Her on a shaky bench sit down;
I feel thou wast by God sent down
The aged nurse in ample gown,
In a half-open dressing-gown
You never since your nose have shown.
Thus her perversity hath shown.
But, to his uncle's mansion flown,
The opportunity is flown.
For summer to the country flown,
Upon my visions such intrude.Fresh aspirations I have known,
Still happier he who ne'er hath known!
Glimmers and dies. This is well known,
For o'er a word to fashion known,
And bitter torment never known.
What everybody long has known;
He is not there: I am not known:
Besides, a duellist well-known
Kept the accounts, shaved many a crown,
She bows her head beneath the crown;
Have one by one all withered grown
Have latterly vexatious grown;
Hath suffered but indifferent grown,
Is cocked once more. Uneasy grown,
"Ideal," he had drowsy grown.
Slept o'er the river misty grown.
Lenski, into confusion thrown,
Her heart more loudly and more fleet.She hesitates, in doubt is thrown--
Like rotten leaves by Autumn strown--
And the young damsel from the town,
Yet let us part in friendship, O
But tell me what am I to do?
To romp and play she ne'er would go:
Her lips where light smiles come and go!
Matrons unto the fireplace go,
They hand in hand to table go.
Incorrigible rogue, doth go.
Whither at headlong speed doth go
Draw near. I soon to sleep shall go--
Whither that evening he will go.
Kept lingering on as loath to go,
Alas! abroad I cannot go.
"Good-bye, Oneguine, I must go."--
Familiar to him long ago.
Made me so tipsy long ago!
The crafty spouse caressed him, who
But say he was a genius who
But they draw near. Before them, lo!
Yea! and a man of honour, lo!
His daily occupations, lo!
I cannot understand. But lo!
Present me."--"You are joking."--"No."--
More troublesome than usual?"--"No!
"And is it she? It must be--no--
The pompous, swaggering cuckold too,
Pen, paper bring: the table too
And usually despised it too),
My beauty, thou art ready too.
But would not look at Cicero.
Inspired him with disgust and so
"Shall we commence?"--"Let it be so,"
Have guessed already. Yes, quite so!
That soon I reach my thirtieth year?And so my noon hath come! If so,
"I'm happy, say, is it not so?"--
"To--?"--"Larina."--"Tattiana?"--"So.
For was it not her duty to
No more remembered him; unto
But dinner-time comes. Two and two
Together moments one or two
A grammar, likewise Petriads two,
Zaretski paces thirty-two
Or a professor in tulle cap.
The lady in the crimson cap
When captured in a schoolboy's cap;
He from his Kalmuck horse did leap
Which o'er the waters boldly leap,
He's a straightforward little chap."
Or at a promenade mayhap,
Although unknown to fame mayhap,
With iridescent wing doth flap
His song, when still he slumbered deep,
Mountains we'll level and through deep
Buried in meditation deep,
Long time in meditation deep
Whilst Petersburg from slumber deep
But stares into the darkness deep.
In mud and mire to wallow deep,
Is waning. Yonder valley deep
The maids beside Tattiana keep--
Her path across the plain doth keep--
Your steed, though rough-shod, cannot keep
As drunken tramps at nightfall sleep,
Arouses rustics from their sleep.
My poor Tattiana cannot sleep
Wrapped in their sheepskins soundly sleep.
Are oft deceptive--like their feet.Where is Oneguine? Half asleep,
Far from the rest the pair would creep
Both bush and brake, ravine and steep,
In sensual sweets his soul doth steep
The sun had mounted high his steep,
Across the stage still madly sweep,
Girls in anticipation skip!
Like down from Aeolus's lip,
With one foot resting on its tip
Was it not thou who thus didst stoop
The sudden rattling of a car.
And since I pulled thee by the ear--
He bending whispered in her ear
Will sound an insult in your ear.
And breathe a drama in his ear.
Since in these arms I thee did bear--
Forgive me! Such the love I bear
All are constrained and fetters bear,
From boxes or from stalls in rows.To the assembly her they bear.
_Come to my golden palace, dear_!
From everything the heart held dear
I can't conceive a little dear
His cup unto his maiden dear.
Even as the love of children dear.
Of roses to romancers dear;
Unseen thou wast already dear.
Not only sorrow--Ah! my dear,
Or e'en Istomina, my dear,
As in some frenzied dream of fear
Wholly beside herself with fear,
Omens inspired her soul with fear,
The path of hope and tender fear--
Entreaties, oaths, fictitious fear,
And Heavens! warbled forth we hear:
They wish that ladies should, I hear,
Terrible tales she loved to hear.
She will not see, she will not hear.
A smile from slumbering nature clear
To be in conversation clear
There is a spot the village near
With sad refrain misfortune near.
And dost thou know her?"--"We live near."
A friar black approaching near,
Epistles of six sheets or near,
A lady draws the hostess near,
Mysteriously all objects near
These friends cold-bloodedly draw near
My neighbour, who by chance drew near,
When youth's rebellious hour drew near
He daily in his drives drew near
Shy, silent did the maid appear
But still more stupid did appear
Do me a favour and appear.
Love to inspire doth woe appear
Still doth the misanthrope appear?
Doth in her gentle eye appear.
Would once in powdered wig appear;
Unknown to all he doth appear,
Go, on the Neva's bank appear,
For which no springtime shall appear?
But as to fighting--'twill appear!
Two dressed in uniform appear--
Doth in us or our names appear,
Thou didst to me in dreams appear,
The shining orbs of night appear;
"How Tania grows! Doth it appear
And happy unto you appear.
More advantageously appear
Never for me to reappear--
A vision desolate and drear
In the dawn of existence drear.
The aspect of a landscape drear.
The coming of life's Autumn drear.
But word for word his letter read.All is foreseen. My secret drear
Modest yet daring! And a tear
O'er my remains to drop a tear,
The simple epitaph--a tear
I then resolved my heart to tear;
Had let fall many a bitter tear:
Yet still her heart, which torments tear,
Old women at the coachmen swear.
For us, may be for many a year.
Long ago?"--"'Tis the second year."
Did seem to greet the youthful year;
And grown more curious by far
Unhappily too salt by far;
And from the Millionaya afar
Or the mysterious Sbogar.
Just placed the entrance door ajar.
The swain of Julia Wolmar,
Malek Adel and De Linar,
And to revive Tattiana seemed.The chairs are thrust back with a roar,
And that a bottle sealed with tar
And hat surnamed a "Bolivar"
Though hitherto a lady ne'er
On waves by tempests curdled o'er!
His bit with foam besprinkled o'er,
Together we have wandered o'er
Now her lithe form she arches o'er
So ancient warriors, battles o'er,
Spanned the unbridled torrent o'er;
As in the timid forest deer,
And exclamations and good cheer.
Gliding in negligent career,
Amid the company career.
"At Larina's."--"Hem, that is queer!
Romance of love I pray refer,
To lawless love I should prefer--
"Well!"--"I the elder should prefer,
Girls the _kashourka_ much prefer.
And traces with a slender finger
Tania doth by the casement linger
Adroitly seized and carried her;
And like a shadow haunted her.
"The younger, you're in love with her!"
Doth love's incautiousness in her
Unfavourable unto her.
He leisurely adorns for her.
But finally grew bored by her.
Not a bad fellow was her father
Though superannuated rather;
Aye bids ye in some way or other--
To Eve the universal mother,
Gravely repeating to another
Servant of God and brigadier,
Where dwelt the Muses' worshipper,
Malicious and a slanderer.
And courtier, fop, and usurer
I'll sprinkle thee with holy water.--
This was his social character.
What is his latest character?
Moscow, Russia's darling daughter,
"The Lord be with thee, O my daughter!"--
Thy Venus and thy Jupiter,
Contend with knife and fork and platter,
I'm beaten in another matter;
Where better?
And read our newspapers scarce ever,
'Fare thee well, and if for ever,
At Russ she was by no means clever
Appear; along the road of Tver
Hope with her fascinating power
Who for the greenwood quits his tower,
I tremble lest my humble prayer
On Trinity Sunday yawned at prayer,
But with confused and bashful air,
Finally tost his arms in air
Lo! my Oneguine free as air,
_Kvass_ needful was to them as air;
Urging your droshkies swift as air
Mark ye with what a modest air
Is occupied with Olga fair,
Conceitedly on Tania fair,
Still eats and drinks enough for twain.Their daughters kiss Tattiana fair.
To cheat the inexperienced fair,
Books he abandoned like the fair,
To clank the spur, delight the fair--
Beside our youthful heroine fair,
The storm was hushed. The blossom fair
I have dreamed many a vision fair
And you, my youthful damsels fair,
For Ay is like a mistress fair,
Is it not true? the objects fair,
Rural LifeCanto The FourthThe less we love a lady fair
I uttered to my lady fair
With the epistle of my fair;
And Moscow many a beauty fair:
Describe in detail the affair,
Hath mixed himself in the affair,
Pray is it not a tough affair
Pallid and with dishevelled hair,
Her tears and her dishevelled hair;
A kerchief round her silver hair
Cropped in the latest style his hair,
With hurried hand smooths down his hair.
And the Skatenines, aged pair,
Before the altar, lo! the pair,
Approaches Olga and the pair
Around the carriage of the pair--
He knows Kaverine will repair.
The freshness of her heart impair,
Yet still remains the old despair.
Sometimes by ready-made despair;
Accents of rapture or despair
The Eternal Jew or the Corsair
Flies past the porter to the stair,
'Tis _yes! no!_ never _madam! sir!_"
Behold, the crowd begins to stir,
She cannot draw a breath or stir.
Petrovski Palace; come, astir!
Lest the malicious reader or
And Flianoff, pensioned councillor,
Anicia soon appears, the door
But gray Phillippevna the door
She cannot--Eugene oped the door
She peeped through a chink of the door.
Olga ran skipping from the door.
Fat Poustiakoff drove to the door;
And beats with rapid foot the floor.
Upon the ball-room's glassy floor
Enamoured, simple-minded, poor,
Oppressor of the wretched poor;
Comfort and succour to the poor,
Is petted by the Emperor?--
Some one or other editor
Opens unto her visitor.
And wheresoe'er thy footsteps err,
The bard of Juan and the Giaour,
And sermon--but in that dread hour
Impressionable for an hour,
I blame not your behaviour--
Lo! at thy feet my tears I pour
And at the stages bugs and fleas
Pelagie Nikolavna has
Oneguine fired--Alas! alas!
And devastate the woods around.There was no doubt! Eugene, alas!
In this case quite mistaken was.
Still of his club he member was--
With purple hand Aurora leads,
With tranquil air Oneguine leads
His wife approaches, with him leads
To two young oaks the coachman leads.
Which to the neighbouring alley leads,
That crass stupidity misleads,
And seek in buzzing swarms the meads.
She the delicious novel reads,
Crunching the morning snow she treads;
If they but heard domestic loads
Come rumbling up the neighbouring roads,
And all that from thy hand proceeds--
"Then come with me." The prince proceeds,
Already dance to song proceeds;
And rising from her bench proceeds;
And a grand festival proceeds.
And thus each stubbornly proceeds.
She drinks in those seductive deeds!
Professions eagerly for deeds,
For riot, frolics, mighty feeds,
The crowd unto the drawing-room speeds,
The Okhtenka with pitcher speeds,
And mourned him still. Why mourn his fate?'Twas eve. 'Twas dusk. The river speeds
To bring behind: the triple steeds
The languid eye of love-sick maids,
Are ye replaced by other maids
Tattiana to a corner, bids
And gradually day unfolds.
In winter, when Night longer holds
Capers applauds with clap of hands,
Abuse their masters, rub their hands:
His son and mortgages his lands.
Nor beauties of far distant lands
Nor homage which the Muse demands
Obedient to warm Spring's commands.
Thus in the earth the seed expands
The steed benumbed still pawing stands
Where each young critic ready stands,
The father scarcely understands
And care but little for its ends.
With bated breath, around she bends
At times my reason almost bends,
The avalanche of snow first bends,
Tobacco smoke the flue ascends,
Tattiana from the hill descends
Then glittering in the sun descends.
No one my anguish comprehends,
Of frivolous existence, friends;
Against my inclination, friends,
The voice of lovers, foes and friends,
A maiden's secrets--of the heart.Triumphs--their own or those of friends--
Existence without wife or friends,
The feet of my dear lady friends.
But little warmth the fireplace lends,
Their harmless conversation blends
The deuce take friends, my friends, amends
His hate by slander, and who spends
On us beyond the grave attends,
O feet, where'er your path extends
With love which happiness extends;
Sits by her gloomily, desponds,
Scarce to her questions he responds,
The girl on tiptoe forward bounds
And her voice sweeter than the sounds
Appear attuned to softer chords;
And wild among them grew her words--
At least their accents and their words
Of passion reminiscences,
Its cold unfeeling sentences;
My goddesses, where are your shades?
'Twas he whom, amid nightly shades,
The remnant destiny concedes,
"Adieu! thou home where peace abides,
The unbidden guests he roughly chides--
And supercilious dames she glides,
In scarlet cap revolving glides.
Leisurely through the gateway glides.
A crab upon a spider rides,
Sits down and gazes on all sides--
Of migratory gipsy hordes--
Moscow approach on bended knees,
Whom autocratic fate's decrees
May be that I by heaven's decrees
To understand by slow degrees
The serpent to unlawful trees
Beneath acacias, cherry-trees,
A due which must to earth be paid.The courtyard full of serfs he sees,
Not the least trace Oneguine sees
An inn at every stage erect.But now, what wretched roads one sees,
And nothing more important sees;
Like Horace, planted cabbages,
She fears and like an arrow rushes
Of thirty different sorts, lo! brushes
Brambles she snaps and lilacs crushes,
Both for the nails and for the tushes.
And all thy precious elegies,
Around the garden homeward hies.
And overcome antipathies
The shutters open; to the skies
But lonely beneath Finnish skies
Of the moon in the tranquil skies,
Where all upon the surface lies,--
When the same life before him lies
Amy Petrovna  utters lies,
Slumber still o'er him lingering flies.
Look through the window and kill flies.
From hall to yard and garden flies,
Tattiana to the index flies
Lamp-posts, shops, sledges, families,
O'erwhelmed with guests; by families
And to the Bourse the cabman plies;
What more's required? The world replies,
Ever to hear the same replies
All breathless and without replies.
Luceria Lvovna paint applies,
Had come both friends and enemies--
His friends and also enemies
And the bad book accompanies.
The general who accompanies.
To bear love's parching agonies--
Thrice happy who their agonies
Her cheek reclines upon her hand.Oh! who her speechless agonies
Alarmed by jealous agonies:
Daily beefsteaks and Strasbourg pies
Flanked by immortal Strasbourg pies,
She from the winter corn espies
Some a mazurka occupies,
He roars, and "Ah!" Tattiana cries.
'Tis silent all! Alone the cries
Upon those pages she descries
Even the rosy wafer dries
Past palaces and nunneries,
In the world's mortal revelries,
With raspberries, cherries.
And pelt him with cherries,
To peer into the future tries.
And alphabetically tries
To watch with lovers' ecstasies,
From public and from private ties,
My splendid house and gaieties--
Than cold Oneguine's oddities,
At neighbouring hospitalities.
And fashion's gay frivolities;
I yield for splendid vanities,
The gilding of life's vanities,
Who glory, wealth and dignities
Spared him not their asperities.
The country hath its liberties
Upon her tongue which fever bakes.
And in her grasp the letter shakes,
Of mines and meadows, woods and lakes,
The doors swing open: Lenski makes
The guests make room; aside each takes
He now a full possession takes,
Without grammatical mistakes.
The third at night. Tattiana wakes
May be, and this my terror wakes,
The mallet loud the ramrod strikes,
His recent glory he invokes.
Also, to equalise the scales,
Time, I invoke thee! favouring gales
She got a book of nursery tales,
The coach is borne o'er ruts and holes,
'Tis not so now. Like gentle dames
Enclosing pictures of fair dames.
But lights incendiary flames
And the dark fringe of men, like frames
And jolting jarred the window-frames.
To banish far unworthy themes
To whom ye for unnumbered crimes
Which we experienced long ago.Alas! he loved as in our times
I sail upon my lake at times
And the young revellers of past times
And due precautions take betimes.
And he waits dinner. Lenski comes,
The fisher's fire afar illumes
Whom pale Diana's ray illumes--
Exhausted by my woes and rhymes,
Mad spirit of the man who rhymes
Beside the cup she sang her rhymes
Had to compose in secret rhymes,
Attentive be unto my rhymes
And an enchanting shoulder shines
Beneath the moon which dimly shines,
Her head upon her breast declines
Upon her elbow she reclines,
Longer the East inert reclines
Upward in a thin stream inclines.
Wherein love innocently pines.
The golden ember now enshrines,
And fashionable magazines,
Arouse yourselves, fair ones.
And now he views forgotten foes,
Yes! every one must have his foes,
Now, like hereditary foes,
Esteemed him much as the world goes.
And meditative homeward goes,
Straight from the ball to bed he goes,
Into the tangled garden goes
All vanished as an echo goes.
Winter! The peasant blithely goes
Between the stalls, along the toes;
The accents wild of other's woes,
With hisses Cleopatra scares,
He fixedly upon her stares--
She calm and unconcerned appears.The husband comes and interferes
The wondrous host of heavenly spheres
And thus ancestral dust reveres.
Then seeks ancestral sepulchres,
Imagination's sacred fires,
And still the coachmen round the fires
As with innumerable fires.
White Moscow raises her old spires,
Compassion now or wrath inspires
Forgive the fever youth inspires,
And where tempestuous love's desires,
And now his youthful heart desires
And of the irksome harness tires,
Jackdaws on every spire--in scores.
Seated, a curious look with glasses
Shouts of applause! Oneguine passes
In true interpretation hates:
And slowly life coagulates--
Which in your spirit dominates,
But wretched who anticipates,
Nor in his dreams anticipates
Cards, balls, routs, poetry or fetes;
A trouble fell upon the sprites;
_Qu'ecrirer-vouz sur ces tablettes?_
Rings, tears, deceptions and intrigues,
And what like menaces fatigues,
Her bosom heaves whilst crimson hues
Which shines with iridescent hues.
By poor Tattiana in the blues;
For ever carps, condemns, pursues?
A victim decked with golden leaves;
All which caprice and affluence craves,
Across the Baltic's salt sea waves,
Twelfth Night approaches. Merry eves!
When thoughtless youth whom nothing grieves,
And pallid nature trembling grieves,
Who dressing-gown and slippers gives
Descends, the order Guillot gives,
Thus our light race grows up and lives,
He enters: to the mill he drives:
The appointed hour arrives, arrives!
He long should have been on the road.He rings in haste; in haste arrives
Beats that of friends and relatives:
Our liberty at least survives:
She the acquaintances she loves,
To the pianoforte he moves
Her spacious fields and shady groves,
And various chords upon it proves,
To dreams I long have closed mine eyes,
Your smiling lips, your beaming eyes,
Before her straight with roguish eyes.
Of frantic laughter, and all eyes
And truffles, dear to youthful eyes,
But wide Tattiana oped her eyes
At the same hour she oped her eyes
For Lenski, sought him with her eyes,
Not daring to cast back her eyes.
Sudden she stops, casts down her eyes
Tattiana, dim with tears her eyes,
But finally he oped his eyes
Olga he sees before his eyes
Where every day before his eyes
For tallow, wood and other things
His travels like all other things
_The peasants there are rich as kings,
But still remembrance to him clings,
Disperse yourselves, darlings,
All that industrial London brings
All this in many cases brings
Happy and glorious_. But this brings
And now she skips and now she springs
Brilliant, ethereal, there springs
Obedient to the magic strings,
With late repentance gnaws and stings.
Slow circling round its fellow swings
The time between the wolf and dogs--
How pleasantly the evening jogs
Along the Neva's bank he sleighs,
Secret excursions made in sleighs;
Thine honour is my countersign!Tattiana moans and now she sighs
Do ye not hear my mournful sighs?
Goddess of lovers' tender sighs.
Hangs heavy on the oaken boughs,
Exceptionless as no rule is,
And deem the world perfection is!
"Oh! what a fool our neighbour is!
Calmly her eyes encounter his--
Eugene, more tolerant than this
I just hint, in parenthesis,
If ye but knew how dreadful 'tis
Lo, the ambassador who speaks
Who with the Spanish envoy speaks?"--
But yet Terpsichore bespeaks
Betimes, and sees, when morning breaks,
The old man who has had his freaks,
Go hear the rustling of the oaks
Lo! compassed by his grove of oaks,
However, the mazurka lacks
For the first time the hammer clicks.
And terrify a swarm of ducks,
As your light footprints on the green.Diana's bosom, Flora's cheeks,
The prince's eye Oneguine seeks:
The very morning of our days.He who hath lived and living, thinks,
A horse's hoofs she hears--She shrinks!
He who hath suffered ofttimes shrinks
In the meantime her spirit sinks,
But now--my very blood congeals,
Was the meek love a maiden feels.
Still thirst fresh draughts of wine compels
May yet be studious of his nails;
And beckon to the passing sails.
Custom the despot soon prevails.
The early tinkling of the bells
Which of approaching labour tells
When the sonorous Breguet tells
Past women, sentry-boxes, rolls,
Impelled by Spring's dissolving beams,
Her eye with fire unwonted gleams.
Do we foresee in troubled dreams
He perished. Where his troubled dreams,
And the heart's agitated dreams.
For rural solitude and dreams,
'Oh, do not dream these fearful dreams,
And where Thalia softly dreams
Descended swift in turbid streams
And where the admirable streams
This wicked, that absurd he deems,
Their memory lingers still and seems
Barely to draw her breath she seems,
And heedless of approval seems,
Awhile sound conversation seems
This nonsense, that dishonest seems,
Or, when anew all Nature teems,
And more imagination teems.
Glory with which our history teems
Of conversation, thought and aims--
No gift she bears, no feast proclaims,
Where harsh frivolity proclaims
When evening o'er the landscape looms,
In Olga's and Tattiana's rooms
A windmill too a jig performs
And wildly waves its arms and storms;
In tranquil flow. The beetle hums.
Disport yourselves, maidens,
The secrets of maidens.
Device of rural minds acute!)Young maidens, fair maidens,
Bokharians, peasants, beds of greens,
Insensible her hand remains
His kneeling posture he retains--
To secrets of virgins,
Friends and companions,
Barking, young ladies' osculations,
Priams of country populations
And dames of fine organisations,
The olden time shall be my theme.Old people's simple conversations
Their offspring's innocent flirtations
Latest arrivals' salutations,
They were the wonderful traditions
Prophecies, threats and apparitions,
Had finished life amid his sons,
For baseness of the spirit scorns,
Tails which a bushy tuft adorns,
With blunted pencil-point adorns.
Whiskers and bloody tongues and horns,
With flame more ardent passion burns,
Her heart importunately turns.
Take to their wings and fly away.But to Oneguine! _A propos!_
All covered up with snow in heaps,
Its stamping, capers and high leaps.
In country towns, where still it keeps
'Tis silent all. Tattiana sleeps.
A dreadful sleep Tattiana sleeps.
A little virgin mirror peeps.
I will not wed, and ever weeps
And dream of life's delightful dawn?The house is crammed. A thousand lamps
Impatiently the gallery stamps,
Feather-beds, also poultry-coops,
Behold! beside their dwelling groups
The two friends' compliments she hears
Feeling in others much esteemed.With smiling face he Lenski hears;
Without participation hears,
Although the destined coffin nears,
The silent fields no peasant nears,
Faithless, alas! thy maid appears,
Tattiana in the yard appears
Mournful Love's deadly trace appears
All in the good old style appears,
Nearer they come--Eugene appears!
With his ferocious mate appears.
Distracted by her grief appears
And what from its recess appears?
Her sacred hoard of joy and tears,
And to these letters and these tears.
Her weary eyes are filled with tears--
Likewise an epitaph with tears
The aged mother, bathed in tears,
My poor Vladimir, bitter tears
Not, and a flood of bitter tears
Her cap of tulle still ever wears:
For visions of my childish years
With Eugene pranks of former years
(So 'twas with us in former years,
For dolls, e'en from her earliest years,
The solstice of our earthly years,
Portmanteaus and preserves in jars,
Have shone as one of fashion's leaders.
Oneguine, O my gentle readers,
Should recompense his idle jeers,
But fools--their calumnies and sneers"--
Old age through spectacles too peers,
The jealous dame her lorgnette veers,
And judgment which unsteady veers
Tattiana certainly infers
The hamlet, the poor villagers,
If his hot hand encountered hers,
Her garden, and those books of hers,
She ne'er repeated unto hers.
Epicurean philosophers,
Boulevards, belfries, milliners,
Nor almanacs nor newspapers,
Huts, chemists, Cossacks, shopkeepers
Spring summons you to her green bowers,
Youth freshens beneath Passion's showers,
'Tis the warm time of labour, flowers;
Of Levshin's school ye followers,
Develops and matures its powers,
Nor boston nor the world's affairs
Saucepans and mattresses and chairs,
To the theatre he repairs
He to the festival repairs,
'Tis day, the family downstairs,
A moment effervescing stirs,
But suddenly a snowdrift stirs,
Balconies, lion's heads on doors,
And hated casual visitors,
And the kind-hearted servitors:
With one paw strokes her face and purrs,
And where a madrigal occurs
To swathe her shoulders in the furs,
Judge then what roses would be ours,
I see you weep. Those tears of yours
Dreaming of what not, pretty lass,
The manners of the highest class
And breathes upon the chilly glass,
Would loiter by the looking-glass,
And from his dressing-room would pass
Both day and night he now must pass
And lo! five paces more they pass,
Unseen in thick and tangled grass
Divinity without access
Yet satiated with success,
There was no angling for success.
In the world's vortex my success,
Tattiana in the young princess!
Trembling he seeks the young princess--
But the indifferent princess,
Entreaties, woes and prayers, confess
Thus oft--this I myself confess--
And now, I mournfully confess,
How flourish, why and wherefore less
"If the domestic hearth could bless--
Me your perfections would not bless;
Also their feet--yet ne'ertheless
With fir-trees standing motionless
Speech was so tame and colourless
The happiest days of life employ?Love, flowers, the country, idleness
To loiter there in idleness
Her heart how full of gentleness,
A child devoid of childishness
Tattiana finds in loneliness.
In melancholy loveliness,
Her cheek of rosy loveliness
And contemplative dreaminess;
"'Twas possible then, happiness--
He _cannot_ give me happiness."
"But strange am I to happiness;
Or, strange to me is happiness?
Oppressive now is happiness,
With laughter smothered weariness:
And freezing fits of weariness.
Their slander e'en was weariness;
In old age life is weariness!"
This glitter, riot, emptiness,
Amid the awful emptiness
In rhyming I show laziness.
Attractive in its banefulness?
I murmur not! Why mournfulness?
I thank thee for thy joyfulness,
Where my days in the wilderness
Aroused in him some tenderness.
With spiritual tenderness;
Inspired by whom this tenderness,
The bays of age and helplessness.
My lot is fixed--with thoughtlessness
Is it that human restlessness
"Oneguine, all this sumptuousness,
Illusions, dream, where, where your sweetness?
Those whom we ought to love, caress,
Await the long-delayed caress.
Whose hands indulgently caress
The ladies, their fantastic dress,
To array himself in evening dress.
Meantime in matutinal dress
Nor dares the skirting of her dress
Conquer by passion and address,
Her eyes no saucy glance address,
But Eugene long hath left the press
A young Armida's lips to press,
She hears the bear behind her press,
Her feet the earth beneath her press!
She starts, nor doth a word express,
To fawn upon and love express;
"Is he known to you?"--"Yes and No."Wherefore regarding him express
All that the heart would fain express--
I like the difference to express
Dally with a dishevelled tress
Hymen's embarrassments, distress,
Inflict annoyance and distress
Her agitation and distress
Love's tender transports and distress,
And though I read it with distress,
Habit was given us in distress
Nor discontinued to distress
A strong resemblance these possess--
Tattiana's letter I possess,
If wife and children to possess
If the raw product they possess
Her nurse, who could have made a guess,
This gentle daring who could guess?
Alas! It is not hard to guess.
Could not in that brief moment guess!
The uncontaminated kiss
Have felt love's agitated kiss
Beneath his lips' devouring kiss.
A lady's hand doth never kiss.
This evanescent boyish bliss.
Sound sleep, books, walking, were his bliss,
Even amusing fools we miss
I've had to make for having friends!But how? Quite so. Though I dismiss
Can count the time without much fuss--
Beside the thundering abyss
Everywhere trumpeting its feats,
Again the giddy waltz repeats.
As every journal now entreats,
Soon the maid on a chair he seats,
And stay whose length none recollects.
In the meantime the mill inspects.
Leaning against the dam expects,
Their coming which no man expects,
Of slumbering citizens he fleets,
Whom latterly one often meets
Along Saint Petersburg's paved streets,
Though without palaces and streets,
Past darkened windows and long streets
Not seeking love but sensual sweets.
Also thy rough-and-tumble fights,
The fire of the nocturnal lights;
And oh! what verses, what delights,
Thy heroes, sanguinary wights,
With rapturous longing he awaits,
Will teach grammatical conceits,
As daylight glimmers, darkness flits,
And his poor basten sandal knits.
As formerly the shepherd sits
The maiden at her casement sits
With cherries, red currants,
Its splendour and its blandishments,
But, after mutual compliments,
The epistle from the bard presents.
She visited the humble tents
Again the plague of boyhood--love?The hours once more Oneguine counts,
But ten strikes and his sledge he mounts
A rivulet beneath them shoots
Two pines have joined their tangled roots,
To Olga Petoushkova darts:
Ever receive with kindly hearts
The flimsy wares of Western marts,
Meantime a Cyclops of those parts
We Russians, friends from distant parts
The Paris of those country parts
Deliberate approach of guests
Variety of speech and vests,
And like Napoleons each of us
The stomach doth admonish us.
Well! Larina appears to us
Who labours hard to humour us?
Us, and like Trojan warriors slay us;
Though for his Helen Menelaus
A million bipeds reckons thus
Corneille's majestic genius,
Whereto in language courteous
Yea! although rendered beauteous
A critic of the stage malicious,
A slave of actresses capricious,
To witticisms and taunts half-vicious
The conversation tedious
Oh! who is not calumnious?
There Didelot became glorious,
Or to pick up her kerchief stooped.She seemed of him oblivious,
By such allusions scandalous,
By Tolstoy's pencil marvellous,
With satisfaction marvellous,
And tiresome rogues ridiculous
And glittering simpletons beside;Amid sly, pusillanimous
How mean, how pusillanimous!
The drive becomes monotonous--
Feeling is silly, dangerous.
It was a cheery, generous
Beyond the city-barriers haste.Thou also, reader generous,
Then ye were barely generous,
He shunned those parties boisterous;
Abandon cities riotous,
Come sing we in chorus
The friend of liberty and laws
Sharp rows of tushes, bony claws,
And hoofs and crooked snouts and paws,
The tightened leathern rein she draws,
His watch, the sun in turn he views--
Perverse, unfavourable views?
And through the lofty windows views
To male acquaintances he bows,
The men salute with lower bows
The epitaph on marble shows:
With all dissatisfaction shows.
Misunderstanding, words and blows.
Mends with the Russian hammer's blows
And Comet champagne foaming flows.
Amber on pipes from Stamboul glows,
When Passion's fire no longer glows
Before a fire which feebly glows
And this the faithful one allows,
Profiles of lovely dames he knows
And all the joys which Winter knows.
For otherwise--God only knows!
The first appearance of the snows
His pony sniffing the fresh snows
Upon the dreary northern snows,
Through dense aristocratic rows
On unknown female forms he throws.
The connoisseur his glances throws
O'er hillock and o'er meadow throws.
Enjoy the meed which Fame bestows--
Of fiery youth's untutored days
Alas! the friend of childish days
Moscow, how oft in evil days,
We called to mind our youthful days--
That vanished are my youthful days,
As the sins of my youthful days
As partner of my mournful days,
And then to meditate for days
Companion of my childhood's days.
O triumphs of my guileless days,
And I confess that now-a-days
Men become friends from idleness.But even thus not now-a-days!
In one of thine enchanting lays
Consisting of harmonious lays,
Or Bogdanovitch's sweet lays.
Whilst Morpheus his approach delays,
On the blue blocks of ice the rays
No more with pale Diana's rays,
Her hand for the cotillon prays.
With which blind Fortune oft betrays
Nor interest in aught betrays.
Delicious visions, jests and fights!Alas! my stomach it betrays
When he in ardent verse portrays
Grows pale and sinks, but nothing says;
Oneguine his excuses says;
Till the mazurka's close he stays,
But soon she altered all her ways,
Delighted much his former ways
Streams excavate subaqueous ways,
And hates the world's discordant ways.
Unto Anicia for the keys
The household troop of little boys,
A joyous troop of little boys
Who cannot conjure former joys?
Sleep in the shadowy couch enjoys,
Approach not to gaze at
Unless forbidden fruit we eat,
She gazed thereon, and instant beat
Ere this but one brief moment beat
There the confusion, pressure, heat,
And boiling o'er with friendly heat,
Age immature averse to cheat--
Nurses who scream and babes who bleat.
With lovers' rubbish filled, was neat
And in a whisper did repeat:
The passionate speeches I'll repeat,
I mean my name not to repeat."
I might to connoisseurs repeat
Which lessons unto us repeat,
A hundred times will not repeat,
Now all things round about repeat
Do not cold-bloodedly repeat
And at economy was great;
Alone amid possessions great,
And cry: he was a poet great!
A ball here, there a children's treat,
Attend in male attire arrayed.On this artistical retreat
Of woods and fields the calm retreat,
When in the study's calm retreat,
Happy who quit life's banquet seat
Abandoned he his country seat,
Removed her to his country seat,
Begins to talk of this and that,
"No misery I see in that"--
Since words like pantaloons, vest, coat,
Upon my lake I love to float,
But when two minutes she had sat,
My friend, 'tis but to pay a debt,
Her brow she did not e'en contract
And blush to own himself reflect.
Of keen sarcastic intellect
With so much warmth and intellect?
Two verses he could recollect
Where I can no more recollect?--
The perfidies I recollect
Should make me much more circumspect,
So prudent, and so circumspect
The glass unwittingly inspect
Such am I. This did ye expect,
And Christian folk will, I expect,
The disenchanted glass direct
So full of piety, correct,
Of the AEneid, but incorrect.
Herein my portrait should detect,
Faithfully shall I now depict,
Wherein the child of fashion strict
Three pairs of handsome female feet;
Long ago, prostrate at her feet.
Eugene fell prostrate at her feet--
Young ladies' faces and their feet.
A heavy goose on scarlet feet,
But now--what brings you to my feet?--
Bows and the scrape of many feet,
And rapid whirl of many feet,
The flowerbeds skirts, the brook doth meet,
O Brenta, once more we shall meet
The miserable bard to meet,
And watch her eye's full glance to meet.
Where fashionable circles meet
But staggers, slips, and falls. We greet
Your magic voices I shall greet,
Her with a smile old women greet,
Near Khariton's in a side street
And thou, from whom Tattiana sweet;
That my coy Muse might sing more sweet.
Ceaselessly to the maiden sweet
That heart with inspiration sweet
As hope uncertain and as sweet,
The words and looks of charmers sweet
"To whom is it to go, my sweet?
"Look quickly to your left, my sweet!"
Wherein I castigation get;
But time flies and she doth forget
Ah! I still struggle to forget
Beside a nameless rivulet,
And by that shady rivulet
Without enthusiasm he met
When in her walks abroad she met
Where God alone knows whom she met.
Of one thing till again we met.
The hour when--Fate so willed--we met
Then in the silent cabinet
Of widow Clicquot or Moet
Thy dove, thy darling little pet
The landscape which the moonbeams fret,
Tortured by pangs of wild regret,
And homeward like an arrow tore.My friends, the poet ye regret!
The fair, nor parted with regret,
Ere the bright messenger had set.
And we--an unattractive set--
On whom a sister's heart was set
Of every sort and every set!"--
It will be by a mob beset
Whilst on the floor Monsieur Triquet
For twice you came to them and yet
Or parody of modern ways?Hath she found out the riddle yet?
Where in the country Eugene yet,
'Mid worldly pleasures chased him yet,
Oneguine, hast forgotten yet
"Then amongst strangers I was left--
"Alas! dear nurse, my heart is cleft,
Of consolation all bereft--
Who secretly denounced the gift,
Though deep he sinks into the drift;
Unto his neighbour, man of thrift,
Forth the _kibitka_ gallops swift,
And by the world repeated oft,
Raises within my breast as oft
Born of a babbler in a loft
Will to the old times faithful be.Speech careless, incorrect, but soft,
But from the Muses' loftiest height
In vehicles surcharged with freight;
And hurried home his awful freight.
Philosopher just turned eighteen.China and bronze the tables weight,
Cartel, or challenge to a fight,
Above the yawning grave would fight,--
To many a noisy feast and fight,
Eight times the heroes of the fight
That, tipsy once in actual fight,
The ladies' dresses airy, light,
All about Olga--to a light
But wilful, frivolous, and light.
The crowd and merriment and light,
Blest be the labours of the light,
As a babe's slumber, or the light
Or but for fame he saw the light;
There came a sudden flash of light,
Aurora's ruddy rays of light--
Pour on this orb a dazzling light
Was withered ere the morning light--
And showed with an uncertain light
Deep in the greenwood far away?Arising with the morning's light,
That the two friends with morning's light
But lo! already the moon's light
Like Hippocrene it scatters light,
The firmament in mellow light,
Was younger than myself, my light,
Yet clearer shines than every light
Of sunset glow with rosy light,
And also fashionable beaux.Our hero stops and doth alight,
The colonel sent it. Oh! delight!
The voice of jealousy is drowned.In my young days of wild delight
E'en for an instant find delight,
"But death from him will be delight.
The curse of commonplace delight.
His spirit sank with strange delight.
Abandoning insane delight,
_Who in thy love finds more delight
To find in gossip such delight,
In such an album with delight
They will receive us with delight."
A sense of social delight,
And with emotional delight
He finally lost all delight
And bless mankind with full delight.
His ardent soul with full delight.
And solitude and calm delight,
And solitude and calm delight.
The votary of vain delight
Would she in silence long remain.Contemplativeness, her delight,
And like the prisoner's our delight
My pen no longer finds delight,
I love its furious delight,
And full of innocent delight,
The Muse revealed her first delight,
Ah! brethren, what was my delight
When tea was brought. 'Tis my delight
And Schiller read by candlelight.
But, ere he mounts the marble flight,
An ever transcendental flight;
From you too Eugene took to flight,
Having remarked Vladimir's flight,
And swifter than the swallow's flight.
His care unto his pistols' plight,
Her movements, voice and figure slight,
The china teapot too ye might
If in the scenes of home I might
And be as happy--as I might.
Time was, a valiant general might
Resounding through all ages might
Lay languishing both day and night--
Terror of guardians of the night;
And breathe the balmy breath of night;
Outside descend the mists of night.
From her half-open vest of night.
The moon, the stars, and shining night--
And vanish like a bird in air.Full many a lovely star hath night
The misty evenings ere Twelfth Night.
And glasses unemployed all night;
But turning morning into night,
And gloomy epigrams malicious.How oft, when on a summer night
That glimmered through the radiant night
"Delighted."--"When?"--"This very night.
Spins, whilst the friend of wintry night,
So there will be a dance to-night.
My morning birdie, yesternight
And form a network left and right;
In the first place, say, am I right?
Paris and Menelaus right.
And better, if I judge aright;
All this, my friends, translate aright:
Seductive, animated, bright,
And in a vision, sinless, bright,
His ditties were as pure and bright
The motley moving mass and bright,
Life lies extended, vast and bright,
And is it true her garland bright
As if he cruelly had joked!'Twas dusk! Upon the table bright
When I yon semicircle bright
The goblet still is bubbling bright--
Behold! the moon was shining bright
Adorned with many a vision bright
Was it not thou, O vision bright,
In winter on the fender bright,
Beneath the eyes of ladies bright
Thee only, pledge of all things bright,
O'erspread with Winter's carpet bright,
To youthful Olga's beauty bright,
I was half silly with affright.
And never was the ear affright
Other and colder thoughts affright,
Before whose inexperienced sight
Once more, when she appeared in sight,
A bill of fare hangs full in sight
The height of fashion, fitting tight,
As yet none had discovered aught;
I am not worthy them in aught;
If they were similar in aught.
Deserted Eugene. He, distraught,
But by fantastic dreams distraught,
Lived as a really wise man ought,
As on the rapid wings of thought
Because in singleness of thought
'Tis foreign to my cast of thought;
Of harmony enshrining thought.
Full of exasperating thought.
A register of fleeting thought,
'Tis noisome to her there: in thought
Immersed in melancholy thought,
Eugene of course related nought,
The seemly crowd, partaking nought
She hears of conversation nought
The languid mind could smile at nought,
In Tania's praise in pouch he brought,
And my dark soul to light was brought;
A table to the fire is brought,
But trusted the ideal she wrought?--
At first such contradictions wrought
Like a true Frenchman, couplets wrought
Of splendid carpets richly wrought.
My memory wandered wide and sought
Again her rural life she sought,
The early days of life we sought.
From storms protection having sought,
The "in memoriam" pages sought,
Though by an error and unsought--
Though we will not acknowledge it.
Some day I'll somehow finish it.
The beldam saith: "The hearth, by it
With measured step and even gait
On guests their servants used to wait
All Nature winter seemed to await,
Must take a walk and rest a bit--
And grasps a pen: his verse, albeit
Yet sometimes this or that deceit
And at the table sat her down.To tragedy, the fainting fit,
Or, with a pen and colours fit,
For maiden's hearing deemed unfit),
On winters of the south a skit,
Whither shall my rapscallion flit?
The table with its lamp unlit,
Oneguine could not now submit,
He somewhat blushing would omit:
A pleasure though with sorrow knit:
Her heart: it seemed a darksome pit
This he believed: a kindred spirit
A dove which on a lyre doth sit;
Who in the orchards gathered fruit,
So mouths they stopt with song, not fruit--
Renowned for his acumen, wit,
The snow upon the streets doth melt--
E'en as the poet says he leant.
A letter for her hero meant:
As we lure the young gallant,
Allure the young gallant
Alone beside it, gray and bent,
On fresh allurements they are bent,
And o'er the granite coping bent,
The needle nor, o'er framework bent,
His butting horns in anger bent,
In the unmoved, magnificent
Like a full moon magnificent.
Now talkative, now reticent;
Who would the maiden innocent
Of affectation innocent,
Because she was so innocent,
Near young Tattiana resident,
Chief rascal, pot-house president,
Haughty appear, subservient,
That Heaven her character had blent
With jest and gossip gaily blent.
Gvozdine, a landlord excellent,
Ne'er touched her fingers indolent
Stiff, overstarched and insolent,
Angel or fiend malevolent.
Or torturer malevolent?
True friend, landlord benevolent,
Bringing his partner corpulent
I'll pass beneath the firmament,
Shines in the female firmament
With scandal's trivial ornament.
And pleasure's daily blandishment,
A timid love to banishment?--
To what malicious merriment,
Awakens secret merriment
It may be, I yield nutriment!
Hopes, frolics, dreams and sentiment
Tattiana tears cannot restrain.The limits of enlightenment
Calm and without embarrassment,
Having this mournful document
But now--none heeds the monument
With epigrams impertinent,
She struggled hard at first thus pent,
Two minutes they in silence spent,
Wherein a space Oneguine spent.
Since leisure was together spent,
A while ago the winter spent,
A Kalmuck gray, in caftan rent
The foes with downcast eyes abide.Foes! Is it long since friendship rent
Obsequious or indifferent!
Now it is ready to be sent--
"You have a letter to me sent.
Who art thou? Guardian angel sent
Being from hell or heaven sent,
Into thy hands my fate I yield!No answer! He another sent.
Time-honoured Kremlin's keys present.
Their heroes used to represent
To a surrender gave consent,
She heaves a sigh and deep intent
But enough! Now, 'tis my intent
And with his lot in life content,
But was our friend Eugene content,
First reconciled and then content;
So Tania to her heart's content
And scanned in silence its content.
In course of time (the whole extent
Serve who could neither read nor write.Time was, in style magniloquent
Remained unnoticed. Once he went
Into the lonely house she went,
Perused, Eugene in postchaise went
'Tis time she to the altar went!
Not so! My Moscow never went
And all the three to breakfast went;
Oneguine to the window went
The Larinas unwisely went,
The poor girl fell into a faint,
His sunken eye and aspect faint,
Imploring looks and mute complaint
An invalid from lung complaint.
But strength of mind and self-restraint
Long since I held thee at the font--
A forest now she sees in front
In spite of common sense we're wont
And I to give thee cakes was wont?"--
And in the final tome we learnt,
A heart wherein pure passion burnt;
Ourselves as unities to count;
The bear rolls on with many a grunt:
And consolation soon begot.
To labour in his sledge forgot,
Billiards abandoned, cue forgot,
Then, the far capital forgot,
What once I knew is clean forgot--
Oneguine lightning glances shot;
Philanthropist or patriot,
In poor Moldavia cast her lot,
Grateful to Heaven for their lot.
Inseparable from our lot;
My country and an exile's lot;
Spite of herself with Lenski's lot
Alas! how wretched now my lot!"
Zaretski and Monsieur Guillot
"Behold my friend Monsieur Guillot;
His Frenchman, good Monsieur Guillot,
To Russ indigenous are not;
One moment's slumber suffer not.
Keep your accounts! You'd rather not?
        Where man is not.
Just at this moment I cannot.
Into the district then to boot
Rousseau and Richardson to boot.
Examine her from head to foot.
Yet viewing her from head to foot,
And meditative from the spot
Was a delightful little spot,
Our bridges long neglected rot,
Just manages a feeble trot
Madame de Stael, Bichat, Tissot:
Nor true unto her sorrow kept.
Just before dinner-time he slept,
Into the chamber where he slept
Subdued him, when his neighbour stept
Thee but a little space bewept,
By neighbouring families bewept,
Because her passion wanted art,
But followed the strict rules of art,
How soon he learnt deception's art,
By flattery and lover's art--
Sometimes by pleasing flattery's art,
A sidelong look doth Eugene dart:
Wherein I felt love's fatal dart,
Rekindled in my withered heart
But the young unpolluted heart
Imprudent prattle of the heart,
And ease the tortures of the heart--
Fruit of the yearnings of the heart.
Obeyed the impulses of heart?--
Unknown as yet the aching heart,
Confessions which a trusting heart
Presentiments oppressed her heart.
The indignation of her heart!
And the lone secret of her heart,
A lancer captivates her heart!
The fashionable rhymester's heart!
Method was dear unto his heart
Within her; she is sick at heart;
Wherein I buried left my heart.
The fires of passion and its smart--
Would at the proper time appear.How well he played the greenhorn's part
But Fortune cast our lots apart
Then touching Olga they depart
Who this soft nonsense could impart,
A hidden meaning could impart,
And oft in whispers would impart
May well in innocence impart.
False confidence or doubt to impart,
Their voices nought to her impart
Poetic transport. They impart
Her passion's faithful counterpart,
Which from the devil's bookcase start,
Anew the flames of passion start
Eugene designed with me to start
As vernal storms the fields athwart.
His own antagonists expert,
And, by the way, I here assert
As oft to meat and drink advert,
The heart of the inveterate flirt!
To accompany him and to escort
Manzoni, Herder and Chamfort,
An infant maiden doth exhort
And no ridiculous report,
A box of terrible import.
Her girlish gaiety and sport.
When the obedient doll in sport
Like a Bacchante in her sport
At times to silence would resort,
With pungent or obtuse retort,
There is no fishmarket retort
Vociferously paid her court,
Doctors and women, sobs and groans.But, howsoe'er his lot were cast,
Not bristled up like a wild beast,
As if it were some funeral feast.
That youthful heart--"But, now at least,
He seemed for matrimony born.He was beloved: or say at least,
Ah! I'm so weak--my throbbing breast!
Had not yet withered his young breast.
Bard of the "Feasts," and mournful breast,
For every loyal Russian breast!
She hid the trouble of her breast,
She buries deep within her breast
"I weep. And if within your breast
Which rankled in Tattiana's breast,
Despite the anguish of his breast,
The fire extinguished in his breast,
By bee and butterfly which pass.'Twas she who first within his breast
And about dawn upon his breast
Use subterfuge, and thus his breast
To ease the anguish of my breast.
Longtime her tears flowed thick and fast;
I by the button-hole seize fast
Poetical enthusiast,
Must e'en despise his kind at last;
The fatal hour had come at last--
She found herself alone at last,
Vanished his youthful years at last,
Appeared, Don's effervescing boast,
Between the blanc-mange and the roast;
Scarce credits what his eyes can see.Hark! the mazurka. In times past,
A flimsy trace of musings past
The laws of generations past,
From shades of the relentless past.
Or, after dinner's dull repast,
All rattled in the ball-room vast,
And youthful madness, youthful fires.The gulf between them was so vast,
But this is my advice, 'twere best
In Russ her love made manifest,
Is once again made manifest.
No sense was ever manifest
To treat the matter as a jest,
And is it true and not a jest,
Heart would not throb albeit in jest--
Hath the bard, by indifference blest,
The credulous indeed are blest,
Just so! that modest swain is blest
A life in common with the rest;
Like you and me and all the rest?--
Doth on the billiard table rest,
Let us go seek a little rest--
Or, beyond Lethe lulled to rest,
The body they consigned to rest,
And grant his weary bones their rest
His weary head declined at rest,
A beauty languidly at rest,
And thus unto her nurse did say:"Nurse, 'tis so close I cannot rest.
Ye feel but little interest,
Now with what eager interest
Having once fixed your interest,
By fond illusions once possest
And then made merry pope and guest,
But first permission did request
With this immoderate request
Their idols they were wont to invest
With what avidity and zest
Devoured them with an eager zest.
Unto the sounding sea to list,
She led me through nocturnal mist
Their own productions, some insist
So many neighbours here exist--
They may forget that we exist.
No greater pleasure can exist
From apprehension of the cost,
That every morn at Verrey's cost
Whither departed is the host?
When in as instant she is lost,--
By their own horses, not the post--
And would by candlelight arise.Romances pleased her from the first,
For treachery had done its worst;
Friendship and friends he likewise curst,
Three flasks of wine he might exhaust.
To light had brought them from their dust,
O'er all a sheet of silvery dust
Who words and actions will adjust
For, from the outset, 'twas unjust
There! take it quickly, if ye must).
Among some ancient ballads thrust,
Satan will jest, and at love's cost.Oh! where bestow our love? Whom trust?
And read De Pradt or Walter Scott!
Inns there are none. Pretentious but
Meagre, within a draughty hut,
But you must both be quite tired out!
Can we not stealthily make out
Yelping, a pack of dogs rush out,
Lenski his pencil-case took out
"My chum lives here," Bruin grunts out.
Sarcastic Shakhovskoi brought out
The wind rose instantly, blew out
All the young people round about,
See, I can hardly crawl about--
At forty suffered from the gout,
Who with a scuffle and a shout
Now Didelot scarce can be endured!"Snakes, satyrs, loves with many a shout
Within resounded shriek and shout:
Their claims and explanations shout.
Whilst the tired serving-men without
A little Juvenal to spout,
In the broad meadow a gay rout,
Of creditors a hungry rout
His comedies, a noisy rout,
Eaten, drunk, gossiped and grown stout:
On lines invisible are fixt;
For folly's dues thou hadst to pay.Noise, laughter, bowing, hurrying mixt,
His eyes, the printed lines betwixt,
A pillar by, two aunts betwixt,
Perusing Gibbon and Rousseau,
To the young girl he said adieu,
But praised be God! in health art thou!
Demands that I translate for you
But with austerity!--for you
"But, _matushka_, to Moscow you
And now upon the snow in thaw
Obedient then to Nature's law,
The time when Melancholy's claw
He offers her his murderous paw;
For whom, Tattiana, is it meant?I have known beauties cold and raw
A young man motionless he saw,
When in that company she saw
Her tresses curled in fashion saw,
He in imagination saw
And marvels deemed he thus should view.
The woods, still naked to the view,
Because he yawned at the bare view
Incessantly his chains to break."I still a complication view,
The altar flame was quenched in night.Tranquil he lay, and strange to view
She never more his face may view,
Russia's Terpsichore review
Of drawing-rooms or old or new.
The triumph of a conquest new.
Shall I your chorus hear anew,
Had reconciled the pair anew!
Thus trees in spring their leaves renew
(Though certainly mankind he knew
But upon all that Eugene knew
Scarce hadst thou entered thee I knew,
My little book. With thee I knew
Replace the visions fancy drew;
Heavy his heart with anguish grew;
I flushed up, stupefied I grew,
As in a garden when I grew,
Or letters of a maiden young.And by degrees upon him grew
And soon imagination threw
Aside the foes their mantles threw,
Who can help loving mother Moscow?
Moscow
Nearest and dearest knew not how
To look on life as on a show,
Villages in the distance show
What languor would his silence show,
To-morrow Tania we will show,
Would you to me this Phyllis show,
Unto a carping world must show--
They are all natural and low,
And herds of oxen wandering low;
Maids in the corner whisper low;
Then, eyeing Olga, whispers low:
With folded arms and eyes bent low,
He back as from a sudden blow?--
Morning's forerunners, breezes blow
A feeble version read below,
Park, garden, palings, yard below
Gazing upon a note below.
All the creations which below
Us from the world wherein we live.Meantime, drink deeply of the flow
Seductive cup of love, whose flow
With its exhilarating flow,
From happy inspiration flow,
Or did her tears soon cease to flow?
Nought from his pen did ever flow,
They sat, but conversation's flow
Where plentifully feelings flow
How full of fire his speech would glow!
Behold her downcast eyes which glow,
Whose countless golden crosses glow
To the youth Eugene hurried now--
The unaffected traits she now
"I am in love, nurse! leave me now."
Now gloomy seemed and cheerful now,
And where may be her sister now?
Her handkerchief she loses now;
But such is not my project now,
Of woe: effaced the pathway now:
Society he duped enow."
Then they came easily enow,
Its insignificance I know
No obstacle of which I know.
You choose."--"But who is she?"--"My wife.""So thou art wed! I did not know.
And in the morning doth not know
"Inform me, prince, pray dost thou know
"Tania, my eldest child, you know"--
Grown clammy, stick fast in the snow;
Cast a gay lustre on the snow,
The first bright wreathing storm of snow
And roofs near morn blanched o'er with snow;
Till January fell no snow--
Till carriage lamps, a double row,
Nought but of dinners a long row,
Is ever thus. With frowning brow
The cold sweat bursting from his brow,
Cocked hat and melancholy brow.
The misanthrope of gloomy brow,
How perfect doth our epoch grow!
The horizon luminous doth grow,
How charming Olga's shoulders grow!
And all your love on self bestow;
And linen on him doth bestow.
'Tis a scene of romance, I vow!"
The Muse capricious let us coax,
Flew to collect his rural tax;
The bee forth from his cell of wax
We glide along a floor of wax.
And so--God bless them, if He list.In this the love of the fair sex
In love, although its tempests vex,
Of diplomats and warlike beaux
I prefer sensible Bordeaux.
And past the threshold of decay,
Chained to his bedside night and day
Then get mad drunk or wroth; the day
What, invitations? The same day
Beside the stormy sea one day
Unto their solitude one day,
And what the old man might bequeath.And in reality one day
Impatient waits the close of day,
To anticipate the break of day,
To-morrow before break of day,
Listless is she the livelong day
He sat, and then the livelong day,
Well nigh her heart in twain was cleft.In cruel solitude each day
In haunts of fashion where each day
Spectacles upon nose, all day
The ruts of his own fatherland.Yet on a frosty winter day
From Romulus unto our day.
We visit about Christmas Day,
She gazed around her--it was day.
And wholly occupied his day--
Olga's admirer came that day:
Had much to do at home that day,
As men who much had done that day.
That he was "ready any day."
He enters. Ah! good news to-day!
Jilted--glad of a holiday.
To-morrow just like yesterday.
Nor shall the bud of yesterday
She was as heedless and as gay--
Time was, his raillery was gay,
Down in the courtyard magpies gay,
In yarns of youthful troopers gay,
Till morn--life uniform but gay,
One morn whilst yet in bed he lay,
No senseless fashionable lay
How sick to death his uncle lay
With pallid light, but Eugene lay
Within his memory there lay,
"How often in thine arms I lay;
In jersey and in nightcap lay.
Like D when dinner doth inspire.Destiny hath preserved his lay.
In the beginning of this lay,
Unto the hero of this lay
Fair object of my guileless lay,
Restless Tattiana sleepless lay
Have smuggled his flagitious lay.
Enough, enough, conclude thy lay--
Who, heard the music of my lay,
Was drawn, ideal of my lay--
And for a time our course delay,
Arrange without the least delay--
The bridegroom sage without delay
Then, her distraction to allay,
How with thy medal I would play,
The military band will play.
A game of chess would often play,
Was wont with me at cards to play.
Lo! through the frozen windows play
To make wise men the idiot play
Cunning already to display
'Tis there that arrant fops display
For the young poet they display.
He would not that a man ye slay
But the dark sepulchre I may
Some army poet therein may
That grandmothers and grandsires may
And though perchance a lady may
Or by a card our homage pay,
Another visit hastes to pay.
"Who? Is it that stout general, pray?"--Let us congratulations pay
To see his Olga ere the fray--
Curtly announcing for the fray
With boiling torrent dark and gray;
And blest the shadows of the night."To-morrow's dawn will glimmer gray,
Driving abreast three horses gray.
Friends, I must your indulgence pray.
"'Tis time, my child, arise, I pray!
Avowal then 'twas time to pray,
Which rushed in eager dense array
Here bottles stand in close array,
His intellect in close array.
Behind, of glasses an array,
But I abandoned their array,
The trees in silvery array,
A cup of tea upon a tray.
And well-instructed to betray!
All with urbanity betray,
Nor doth my absent pen portray
Minutely I will now portray.
Tattiana purchased with a stray
She sits alone--'tis ever _she!_So frequently his mind would stray
Thither hussars on leave will stray
Transfixed Oneguine mine doth stay.Is this the same Tattiana, say,
Discourse of Bentham or of Say,
Surveying them, she thus doth say:
And starting suddenly doth say:
Almost became a poet say--
"Tell me, why doth your comrade stay?"
Alone beneath your rooftree stay
He cared no longer there to stay,
Horror! had she not better stay
But it grew late; he must not stay;
There jars of cider block the way,
His furs are powdered on the way
In a lax or informal way,
He still made love in a queer way;
Unto the fields she makes her way,
Ah! he has gone the other way"--
"Oh! whither have ye winged your way,
Impetuously clove its way
A passing snowstorm wreathed away
Nor did her blushes fade away,
The starry beacons fade away,
Carried a truth divine away;
Oneguine Olga bore away.
How oft the kindly Muse away
And gallops to her house away.
As it were, tore himself away.
Ah! what hath fate not torn away!
From the dread pistol turn away.
Without a chance to slip away.
The mystic lines to tear away
And to Oneguine far away
But thoughts meander far away--
But borne in spirit far away
Across the smiling face of dawn.Alas! Tattiana fades away,
But Summer swiftly fades away
I write, and anguish flies away,
And calmly sleeps the hours away,
It whiled his idle hours away
The lily's stem to eat away,
Unto her husband, went away--
With serious air then went away
On thigh or temple, friend on friend.Resolved the flirt to cast away,
A hemisphere beneath her sway,
But I, in love, was mute and dull.The Muse appeared, when love passed by
Oneguine sat the table by
But I was sharp in times gone by.
Stops at the tomb in passing by;
No trace ye left in passing by
At table she was sitting by
The whirlwind of the waltz sweeps by,
A boat with splashing oar floats by,
And like a palisade flit by.
Alas! my friends, the years flit by
Ivan Petrovitch still a gaby,
Simeon Petrovitch just as shabby;
At first, I clung to secrecy:
Nor by her sister's brilliancy
Possessed nor ease nor fluency,
Hearing the fatal perfidy?
Tania, observed by nobody,
And  they
A stable, kitchen, fence appeared.To consanguineous dinners they
More crimson every moment they.
To idle musing was a prey;
A lover's letter might convey,
Eventually petrify
May find a crumb to satisfy.
He ne'er shall hear Time's eulogy,
Possess my love and sympathy.
The witching light of sympathy;
At least by show of sympathy;
Eugene was touched with sympathy;
She fears she cannot.--Cannot? Why?--
I cannot tell the reason why,
Already Autumn chilled the sky,
When on the pallid eastern sky
The nights of golden Italy
Presents her quarto amiably,
But Eugene, incontestably,
Nor shall my pen paint terribly
Upon his couch insensibly;
Tattiana asks, and hurriedly
At morn I must assuredly
And now we hear delightedly
What agitation languidly
A true account and in detail.But not at present, though sincerely
Entrusted all to her sincerely,
And turned to leave immediately,
"No matter, look immediately.
Took aim--but as immediately
Dark clouds before the north wind fly;
Or innocently past me fly.
Delicious nature, thee I fly,
Tattiana would attempt to fly,
The feet of graceful ladies fly,
The evanescent fashions fly
Unto the gates the servants fly
I long have ceased to offend the laws.Alas! life's hours which swiftly fly
Thus shines the wretched butterfly,
And ruthless fashion hath blackballed.I like this word exceedingly
And the world met her smilingly,
Though he advanced unceasingly.
Harvests of souls unceasingly
Enchanting, but unwittingly,
What say you? to the family--
"Who will be there?"--"The family.
Petrovski Palace! Gloomily
And like Childe Harold gloomily
Mute, solemn, frowning gloomily.
And the far mountains daintily
All arise. To the door he goes.Terror assails her. Hastily
So from the mountain lazily
I would not part with finally;
God save his soul eternally
With him were friends eternally:
But of this love, e'en casually,
To all she answers cruelly--
By waters shining tranquilly,
Danced the mazurka gracefully,
Or other mask donned playfully?
Descried before me suddenly!
Thus shakes the hare when suddenly
Have my Oneguine--suddenly.
His transports were quite maidenly,
"What! Grandison?"--"Yes, certainly!"
The reaping girls approach and ply
Prevailed at last. She in reply
Though I'll return to him right early,
Her caps and night-dresses to mend.As for her spouse he loved her dearly,
That all may hear his voice's tone.Thou fairy-land! Where formerly
From habit or maliciously,
Like Venus when, capriciously,
Or into bold hands anxiously
You'll spend your winter famously!
In the French language perfectly,
Known unto children perfectly:
"Then send your grandson quietly
Tattiana suffered secretly;
Then he'd malign them secretly
To lay two covers secretly.
Turned to her and discordantly
Oh! I accept. And instantly
Grasped a long knife and instantly
Conduct Tattiana constantly,
The same warm vision constantly;
Employ your glasses constantly,
She cannot--then impatiently
With clouded brow stands silently?
Around her neck, now violently
His son is married, just conceive!""And he--but of him presently--
And of the attic. Honestly,
Three balls a year he gave ye duly,
Having performed his service truly,
The artifice of villany--
He brought from mystic Germany
The captain of a company.
But who in that choice company
There, in that knot of company,
Wallow, my friends, in company!
The man and liked his company,
I thank thee. In thy company,
Thou hast resigned thy destiny
Then be it so! My destiny
Aunts, mothers and their scrutiny,
There is no stupid calumny
Their giddy sports she ne'er enjoyed.She loved upon the balcony
Hath whiled the road's monotony,
It occupied him from a boy,
Into the study of the boy
Instructed jestingly the boy,
Not a mere hot, pugnacious boy,
Which in the winter were a joy:
A labour, torment, yet a joy,
In idleness and tranquil joy
Sang childhood's pastimes and its joy,
Now for the jealous youth what joy!
Wherefore? She found a secret joy
Thus Nature doth our souls alloy,
The chaise long ordered please employ,
Fearing his pupil to annoy,
The feeble moment would espy
And following them ye might espy
Attentive listened to the lad.But more the passions occupy
Drive on! the city barriers hoary
Light sallies without coxcombry,
She strains her throat to force a cry--
Dark shadows thicken--a dread cry
And wakened him with the loud cry:
Of clarinet or flute doth cry:
I hear your harsh, reproachful cry.
Grow harsh and cruel, dead and dry,
But my Tattiana's eyes were dry.
Beneath a cross and shrubbery.
Upon the windows tracery,
By night prepared for sorcery,
But scarce had sleep's soft witchery
And turned aside the drapery;
The clue unto some mystery
To be a charming mystery:
With ardent sighs and flattery
Alike by sighs and flattery.
_Sed alia tempora_. And bravery
There dwells five versts from Krasnogory,
Adieu, thou witness of our glory,
But, her own room in memory,
Here, drunk with his late victory,
Haste, haste thy lagging pace, my story!
Relate some ancient history."
He feared the criminal might try
Will pass; the same to-morrow try--
Free, I renewed the idolatry
That Nina's marble symmetry,
Fragments of northern poetry,
And platitudes and pedantry,
Lapped in your Eastern luxury,
Byron's capricious phantasy
Carried away by ecstasy,
Must bow in common courtesy;
Is full of frigid jealousy,
Hope to conceal and jealousy,
And fits of coughing racked her chest.By the sick lady's gaiety
Lead into good society,
Lest jaded with satiety,
With jealous fear, anxiety.
Upon its damp opacity,
This, this were true felicity!
Before such fond simplicity
And mental elasticity.
Of Russian domesticity;
Yet with a feigned frigidity
Cursing his own stupidity,
(Nonsense and pure absurdity,
Discovered much absurdity,
By dull insensibility,
And then with blind credulity
And husbands' tedious amity?
But grant with magnanimity
And naked uniformity.
Like him renouncing vanity,
By his embarrassed dignity--
Of old maids the divinity,
Whom thirty centuries adore.I will with thy divinity
Passed into dull eternity,
Have echoed to eternity.
Hears not my importunity!
As giddy youth's hilarity--
Charming is your sincerity,
As Winter in their purity,
Dreams with no continuity,
The style of wise antiquity.
It carries of antiquity
Of kindly, dim antiquity,
With hope and then perplexity,
With us 'tis quite a novelty
I thought--retirement, liberty,
Also my wretched liberty
The child of sloth and liberty.
Von Wisine, friend of liberty,
Idolatry of liberty,
Thou too farewell, my liberty!
Of tender years the modesty
